INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 1M

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Notiﬁcation of Multicandidate Status (FEC FORM 1M)
Multicandidate Status Deﬁned
FEC FORM 1M discloses supplemental information that verifies the
date on which your committee became a
multicandidate committee. To qualify as
a multicandidate committee, a political
committee must:
a) Be registered for at least 6
months;
b) Receive contributions from more
than 50 persons; and
c) Make contributions to at least 5 Federal candidates. (This requirement
does not apply to State party committees.) 11 CFR 100.5(e)(3).

Filing Information
Within ten days after satisfying the
three requirements, the committee must
ﬁle the Notiﬁcation of Multicandidate
Status (FEC FORM 1M) with the appropriate ofﬁce as follows:
* Political committees which support
or oppose only Senate candidates ﬁle
with the Secretary of the Senate, Ofﬁce of Public Records, 232 Hart Senate Ofﬁce Building, Washington, DC
20510-7116. Mail addressed to the
Secretary of the Senate should read:
“Ofﬁce of Public Records, P.O. Box
77578, Washington, DC 20013-7578.”
* All other committees file with the
Federal Election Commission, 999 E
Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20463.
Additionally, committees maintaining headquarters in Montana, Guam
or Puerto Rico must ﬁle a copy of the
Notiﬁcation in their state or territory.
(As of December 2003, those states
and territories had not qualiﬁed for the
Commission’s state waiver program.)

4PG025

Line-By-Line Instructions
LINE 1. Print or type the full name and
mailing address of the committee. The
name of a separate segregated fund must
include the full name of its connected
organization, as well as any abbreviation
or acronym used by the fund.
LINE 2. Enter the committee’s FEC
identiﬁcation number.
LINE 3. Refer to the committee’s Statement of Organization (FEC FORM 1)
and indicate the committee type on this
line. National and local party committees, nonconnected committees, and
separate segregated funds should check
the “Other” box.
LINE 4. Status By Afﬁliation. Enter the
date on which the committee’s Statement
of Organization (FEC FORM 1) was
submitted. Provide the name and FEC
identiﬁcation number of the afﬁliated
multicandidate committee.
LINE 5. Status by Qualiﬁcation.
(a) List the Federal candidates who
have received contributions from
your committee. Disclose the appropriate information regarding the
ofﬁce sought, the candidate’s State
and/or District and the contribution
date. Disregard this section if your
group is a State party committee.
(b) Enter the date on which the committee received a contribution
from its 51st contributor. Each
contributor should satisfy the FEC
deﬁnition of “person” set forth in
11 CFR 100.10.
(c) Enter the date on which the committee’s Statement of Organization
(FEC FORM 1) was submitted.
(d) Enter the date on which the committee satisﬁed its ﬁnal requirement
for multicandidate status.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2004)

