INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Report of Receipts and Disbursements for a
Committee or Organization Supporting a Nominating Convention
(FEC FORM 4)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SUMMARY PAGE (FEC
FORM 4)

General
Who Must File
(1) Each convention committee established by a national committee pursuant to 11 CFR 9008.3(a)(2);
(2) Each committee, including a host
committee, other organization or
group of persons which represents
a State, municipality, local government agency or other political subdivision in dealing with officials of
a national party with respect to matters involving a Presidential nominating convention; and
(3) Any other organization, including
a national committee, which represents a political party in making arrangements for that party’s convention held to nominate a candidate
for the office of President or Vice
President (except that the reporting
requirement does not apply to a national committee which has established a convention committee pursuant to 11 CFR 9008.3(a)(2)) are
required to file reports of receipts
and disbursements.
Note: Convention and host committees must file reports in an electronic format under 11 CFR 104.18 if they have
either received contributions or made
expenditures in excess of $50,000 during the calendar year, or if they have
reason to expect that they will exceed
either of those thresholds. If the committee has reached this level of activity,
DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON PAPER. Instead, you must file this form
in an electronic format. Contact the FEC
FE1AN056.PDF

for more information on filing electronically.
Where to File
An original report and any amendments must be filed with the Federal
Election Commission, 999 E Street, NW,
Washington, DC 20463.
When to File
• The post convention report must be
filed on the earlier of: 60 days following the last day the convention is officially in session; or 20 days prior to
the Presidential general election. The
post convention report must be complete as of 15 days prior to the date on
which the report must be filed.
• Quarterly reports must be filed no later
than 15 days following the last day of
the covering period, except for the
Year-end report, which is due January
31. Any quarterly report due within
20 days before or after the convention
need not be filed, and in lieu of such
quarterly report a post convention report must be filed.
• The final report by a host committee
must be filed no later than 10 days after activity relating to the Presidential
nominating convention has ceased.
Reports filed electronically must be
received and validated by the
Commission’s computer system on or
before 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/
Daylight Savings Time on the prescribed
filing date in order to be timely filed.
Treasurer’s Responsibilities
A copy of this report must be preserved by the treasurer of the political
committee for a period of not less than
three years from the date of filing. The
treasurer of the political committee is
personally responsible for the timely and
complete filing of the report and for the
accuracy of any information contained
in it.

Line-by-Line Instructions
It is recommended that committees
complete the Detailed Summary Page
before completing the Summary Page.
LINE 1. Print or type the complete name
and mailing address of the committee.
LINE 2. Enter the FEC Identification
Number assigned to the committee.
LINE 3. Check the appropriate box for
type of committee/organization. If the
“Other” box is checked, specify the type
on the line provided.
LINE 4(a). Check the appropriate box
for “Type of Report.”
LINE 4(b). If this is an original report,
check the “NO” box. If this is an amendment to a previous report, check the
“YES” box.
LINE 5. Enter the coverage dates for
this report. All activity from the ending
coverage date of the last report filed
must be included.
LINE 6(a). Enter the total amount of
cash on hand at the beginning of the calendar year. The term “cash on hand”
includes: currency; balance on deposit
in banks; savings and loan institutions;
and other depository institutions;
traveler’s checks owned by the committee; certificates of deposit; treasury bills
and other committee investments valued
at cost.
LINE 6(b). Enter the total amount of
cash on hand at the beginning of the reporting period.
LINE 6(c). Transfer the amounts from
Column A and Column B of Line 20 to
the corresponding Columns on Line 6
(c).
LINE 6(d). Add Lines 6(b) and 6(c) to
derive the figure for Column A, and add

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Lines 6(a) and 6(c) to derive the figure
for Column B.
LINE 7. Transfer the amounts from Column A and Column B of Line 25 to the
corresponding Columns on Line 7.
LINE 8. For both Column A and Column B, subtract Line 7 from Line 6(d)
to derive the figure (which should be the
same for both columns) for cash on hand
at the close of the reporting period for
Line 8.
LINE 9. Transfer the total amount of
debts and obligations owed TO the committee from Schedule C or D.
LINE 10. Transfer the total amount of
debts and obligations owed BY the committees from Schedule C or D.
LINE 11. Transfer the amounts from
Column A and Column B of Line 21(c)
to the corresponding Columns on Line
11.
LINE 12. Transfer the amounts from
Column A and Column B of Line 17(c)
to the corresponding Columns on Line
12.
LINE 12(a). For both Column A and B,
subtract Line 12 from Line 11 to derive
the figures for Line 12(a).
LINE 12(b). Transfer the expenditures
from prior years subject to the limitations.
LINE 12(c). Add Lines 12(a) and 12(b)
to derive the figure for Line 12(c).

Page 2, Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

FE1AN056.PDF

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
DETAILED SUMMARY PAGE
OF RECEIPTS AND
DISBURSEMENTS (FEC
FORM 4, PAGE 2)

The committee’s full name and the
coverage dates of the report must be
entered in the appropriate blocks. If
there are no receipts or disbursements
for a particular category for a reporting
period or calendar year, enter “0.” To
derive the calendar year-to-date figure
for each category, the political committee should add the “Calendar Year-toDate” total from the previous report to
the “Total This Period” from Column A
for the current report. For the first report filed for the calendar year, the “Calendar Year-to-Date” figure is equal to
the “Total This Period” figure.
LINE 13. Enter the total amount of Federal funds received. These are receipts
from the Presidential Election Campaign
Fund (US Treasury). Itemize all of these
receipts on Schedule A, regardless of the
amount.
LINE 14(a). Enter the total amount of
itemized contributions to defray convention expenditures on Line 14(a). These
are receipts used to pay expenses incurred for the nominating convention.
For each person other than a political
committee who has made one or more
contributions during the calendar year
aggregating in excess of $200, the committee must provide on Schedule A the
identification (full name, mailing address, occupation and name of employer) of the person, date and amount
of each contribution aggregating in access of $200 and the aggregate year-todate total. Each additional contribution
from any such person must be separately
itemized. All contributions from political committees must be itemized on
Schedule A, regardless of the amount.
For each contribution, provide the identification (full name and address) of the
committee, date and amount of the contribution and the aggregate year-to-date
total.
FE1AN056.PDF

LINE 14(b). Enter the total amount of
unitemized contributions to defray convention expenditures on Line 14(b).
LINE 14(c). For Column A, add the totals on Lines 14(a) and 14(b) to derive
the figure for Line 14(c).
LINE 15. Enter the total amount of
transfers from affiliated committees on
Line 15. Loans and loan repayments
received from affiliated committees
must be included on Line 15 and not on
Line 16. These transfers must be itemized on Schedule A, regardless of the
amount. For each transfer provide the
identification (full name and mailing
address) of the committee, date and
amount of the transfer and the aggregate
year-to-date total.
LINE 16(a). Enter the total amount of
loans received (other than loans received
from affiliated committees) on Line
16(a). All loans received by the committee must be itemized on Schedule A,
regardless of the amount. For each loan
provide the identification: full name,
mailing address and, where applicable,
occupation and name of employer of the
person making the loan, date and amount
of loan and the aggregate year-to-date
total. The committee must also provide
on Schedule C the identification of any
endorser or guarantor and the amount
of the endorsement or guarantee (see
also instructions for Schedule C).
LINE 16(b). Enter the total amount of
loan repayments received (other than
loan repayments to affiliated committees) on Line 16(b). All loan repayments
received by the committee must be itemized on Schedule A, regardless of the
amount. For each loan repayment provide the identification of the person
making the loan repayment, date and
amount of the loan repayment and the
aggregate year-to-date total.
LINE 16(c). For Column A, add Lines
16(a) and 16(b) to derive the figure for
Line 16(c).
LINE 17(a). Enter the total amount of
itemized refunds, rebates and returns of
deposit that have been reported on Line
21 of the Detailed Summary Page as a
convention expenditure(s) on Line
17(a). For each person who provides

refunds, rebates and returns of deposits
relating to convention expenditures aggregating in excess of $200 for the calendar year, the committee must provide
on Schedule A the identification of the
person, date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and the
aggregate year-to-date total.
LINE 17(b). Enter the total amount of
unitemized refunds, rebates and returns
of deposits relating to convention expenditures on Line 17(b).
LINE 17(c). For Column A, add the totals on Lines 17(a) and 17(b) to derive
the figure for Line 17(c).
LINE 18(a). Enter the total amount of
itemized other refunds, rebates and returns of deposits on Line 18(a). These
are all other rebates, refunds and returns
of deposits that have been reported on
Line 24 as an “Other Disbursement.”
For each person who provides other refunds, rebates and returns of deposits aggregating in excess of $200 for the calendar year, the committee must provide
on Schedule A the identification of the
person, date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and the
aggregate year-to-date total.
LINE 18(b). Enter the total amount of
unitemized other refunds, rebates and returns of deposits on Line 18(b).
LINE 18(c). For Column A, add the totals on Lines 18(a) and 18(b) to derive
the figure for Line 18(c).
LINE 19(a). Enter the total amount of
itemized other receipts on Line 19(a).
For convention committees this would
include interest and dividends. For host
committees other income would include
contributions received to promote the
city and its commerce. For each person
who provides any dividends, interest or
other receipts aggregating in excess of
$200 for the calendar year, the committee must provide on Schedule A the identification of the person, the date and
amount of each receipt aggregating in
excess of $200 and the aggregate yearto-date total.
LINE 19(b). Enter the total amount of
unitemized other receipts on Line 19(b).

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 3

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

LINE 19(c). For Column A, add the totals on Lines 19(a) and 19(b) to derive
the figure for Line 19(c).
LINE 20. For both Column A and Column B, add Lines 13, 14(c), 15, 16(c),
17(c), 18(c) and 19(c) to derive the figures for Line 20.
LINE 21(a). Enter the total amount of
itemized convention expenditures on
Line 21(a). These are disbursements
made to defray convention expenses.
For each person who receives payments
for convention expenditures aggregating
in excess of $200 for the calendar year,
the committee must provide on Schedule B the full name and mailing address,
date and amount of each convention
expenditure aggregating in excess of
$200 and the purpose of the expenditure (see also instructions for Schedule
B).
LINE 21(b). Enter the total amount of
unitemized convention expenditures on
Line 21(b).
LINE 21(c). For Column A, add the totals on Lines 21(a) and 21(b) to derive
the figure for Line 21(c).
LINE 22. Enter the total amount of
transfers to all affiliated committees on
Line 22. Political party committees must
enter the total amount of transfers to
other affiliated committees on Line 22.
Loans and loan repayments made to
other political party committees or affiliated committees as appropriate must
be included on Line 22. These transfers
must be itemized on Schedule B, regardless of the amount. For each transfer
provide the full name and mailing address of the recipient committee, date
and amount, and state that the purpose
of the disbursement is a “Transfer.”

ized on Schedule B, regardless of the
amount. For each person who receives
a loan repayment provide the full name,
mailing address, date and amount, and
state that the purpose of the disbursement is a “Loan Repayment.”
LINE 23(c). For Column A, add the totals on Line 23(a) and 23(b) to derive
the figure for Line 23(c).
LINE 24(a). Enter the total amount of
itemized other disbursements on Line
24(a). For each person who receives
any disbursement(s) not otherwise disclosed where the aggregate amount or
value is in excess of $200, the committee must provide the full name and address of each such person together with
the date, amount and purpose of any
such disbursement.
LINE 24(b). Enter the total of
unitemized other disbursements on Line
24(b).
LINE 24(c). For Column A, add the totals on Line 24(a) and Line 24(b) to derive the figure for Line 24(c).
LINE 25. For both Column A and Column B, add Lines 21(c), 22, 23(c) and
24(c) to derive the figures for Line 25.

LINE 23(a). Enter the total amount of
loans made, excluding transfers reported
on Line 22 on Line 23(a). For each loan
made by the committee, provide the full
name and mailing address of the person,
date and amount of the loan, and state
that the purpose is a “Loan.”
LINE 23(b). Enter the total amount of
loan repayments, excluding transfers reported on line 22, made on Line 23(b).
All loan repayments made must be item-

Page 4, Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

FE1AN056.PDF

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE A, ITEMIZED
RECEIPTS (FEC FORM 4)

The Detailed Summary Page is broken down into various categories of receipts. Use Schedule A to list each receipt required to be itemized. DO NOT
combine more than one category of receipts on the same Schedule A. Instead,
use a separate Schedule A for each category of receipts. The line number of
the Detailed Summary Page to which
each Schedule A pertains should be identified in the upper right corner of each
Schedule. In addition, the committee’s
full name must be entered in the appropriate block. For each receipt required
to be itemized during the reporting period, the political committee must provide the identification, date and amount
of the receipt and the aggregate year-todate total. If disclosing a contribution
from a federal political committee, the
committee should enter the committee’s
FEC identification number. (This number is readily available from the
Commission’s Web site or its Public Disclosure Division.)
The term “identification” means, in
the case of an individual, his or her full
name, including: first name, middle
name or initial, if available, and last
name; mailing address; occupation; and
the name of his or her employer; and, in
the case of any other person, the person’s
full name and address. Do not abbreviate committee names.
The occupation and name of employer is only required to be provided
for receipts from individuals. “Occupation” means the principal job title or
position of an individual and whether or
not self-employed. “Employer” means
the organization or person by whom an
individual is employed, and not the
name of his or her supervisor.
The “receipt for” block does not apply to contributions received by political committees. Only use these blocks
for receipts relating to refunds or loan
repayments received from federal candidates. The “aggregate year-to-date”
FE1AN056.PDF

total must be given for each receipt and
must equal the total amount that the person has given to the committee for that
particular category of receipts for the
calendar year. If a receipt is the only
receipt from a person during the calendar year, the aggregate year-to-date total must still be entered.
The “Total This Period” amount (the
last line on Schedule A) must be added
to all other receipts for that category
which are not itemized and carried forward to Column A of the corresponding
line of the Detailed Summary Page.
If a contribution is received from a
business entity or is drawn on what is or
appears to be a business account, the
political committee must determine that
the contribution is not from a prohibited source. If the contribution is from
a prohibited source, it must be refunded
within thirty days of its receipt.
A contribution which appears to be
excessive, either on its face or when aggregated with other contributions from
the same person, may be returned or
deposited into a committee depository
but not used. If deposited, the contributor may be asked if a joint contribution
was intended and, if so, to submit a written reattribution of the contribution
signed by each contributor. If no
reattribution is received, the excessive
contribution must be refunded within
sixty days of its receipt. Reattributions
are reported as memo entries on the report covering the period in which the
committee receives the reattributions.
Indicate how the contributions(s) was reported initially, followed by the
reattributed entry(ies). See 11 CFR
104.8 for the reporting of these types of
contributions.
Contributions In-Kind. Contributions in-kind (i.e., goods and services
provided to a political committee) are
treated as any other contribution and
must be reported and itemized under the
appropriate category of receipts. For
example, a contribution in-kind from an
individual must be itemized on Schedule A and reported under the category
for “Contributions From Individuals/
Persons Other Than Political Committees.” The value of each contribution
in-kind must be entered in the “Amount

of Each Receipt This Period” column.
The amount or value of the contribution
in-kind is the difference between the
usual and normal charge for the goods
or services at the time of the contribution and the amount charged the political committee. The “aggregate year-todate” total must include the total amount
of all contributions which the person has
contributed to the committee during the
calendar year. The item must be labeled
“contribution in-kind” and include the
nature of the contribution (e.g., consulting , polling, etc.). Each contribution
in-kind must also be reported in the same
manner as an operating expense on
Schedule B and include in the total for
“Operating Expenditures” (Note: A
political committee which makes a contribution in-kind only reports it as a disbursement and itemizes the transaction
on Schedule B with a notation “contribution in-kind.” The purpose of the expenditure (e.g., consulting, polling, etc.)
and the aggregated year-to-date amount
must also be provided. The committee
receiving the contribution in-kind must
report it as both a receipt and an expenditure.)
Contributions of stocks, bonds, art
objects, and other similar items to be liquidated must be reported as follows:
(1) If the item has not been liquidated at
the close of the reporting period, the
committee must record as a memo
entry (not as cash) on Schedule A
the item’s fair market value on the
date received, including the name
and mailing address (and when in
excess of $200, the occupation and
name of the employer) of the contributor. The total amount of items
to be liquidated must be entered under “Total This Period” on the last
line of Schedule A. This amount
must NOT be carried forward to the
Detailed Summary Page.
(2) When the item is sold, the committee must report the proceeds and include them in the appropriate categories on the Detailed Summary
Page. It must also report the (i)
name and mailing address (and,
where in excess of $200, the occupation and name of employer) of
the purchaser on Schedule A, if purchased directly from the commit-

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 5

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

tee (the purchaser is considered to
have made a contribution to the
committee); and (ii) the identification of the original contributor on
Schedule A.
Exempt Legal or Accounting Services. Legal or accounting services rendered to or on behalf of an authorized
committee of a candidate or any other
political committee are not contributions
or expenditure and are not, therefore,
subject to the contribution limitations
and prohibitions, if the person paying for
the services is the regular employer of
the individual rendering the services and
if the services are solely to ensure compliance with the Act.
The political committee must itemize as a memo entry on a separate Schedule A each person who provides legal or
accounting services to the political committee in an aggregate value or amount
in excess of $200 within the calendar
year, together with the date of receipt
and amount or value of the exempt legal or accounting services, and state that
the receipt is for “exempt legal or accounting service.” The total amount of
exempt legal or accounting services
must be entered on the line for “Total
This Period” on the bottom of Schedule
A, but the total amount may not be carried forward to any category or line number on the Detailed Summary Page.
Earmarked Contributions. For
each earmarked contribution received
(regardless of the amount), the political
committee must report on Schedule A
the name and address of the original
contributor, the date of receipt and the
amount of the contribution and, if the
original contributor makes contributions
aggregating in excess of $200 to the
political committee during the calendar
year, the occupation and name of employer. If the contribution passes
through the political committee’s account and is forwarded to another political committee or Federal candidate,
the conduit committee must disclose
each contribution, regardless of the
amount, on both Schedule A and Schedule B and include the amount under the
appropriate category of receipts and disbursements. If the contribution was

passed on in the form of the contributor’s
check, the conduit must disclose each
contribution on a separate Schedule A
attached to the conduit’s (intermediary)
next report and the amounts of such contributions are not required to be included
in the totals for the appropriate categories of receipts and disbursements. If a
political committee is not a conduit, but
is the intended recipient, the political
committee must report each conduit
through which the earmarked contribution passed, including the name and address of the conduit, and whether the
contribution was passed on in cash, by
the contributor’s check, or by the
conduit’s check. If the conduit exercises
direction and control over the contribution, the earmarked contribution must
also be attributed to the contribution
limitations of the conduit.
Checks Returned Due to Insufficient Funds. If a contributor’s check is
returned to the political committee due
to insufficient funds and the receipt of
the check was previously reported, the
political committee must report the return under the appropriate category of
receipts as a negative entry and net out
the amount of the check from the total
for that category. If the original receipt
of the check was itemized on Schedule
A, the return of the check must also be
itemized as a negative entry on Schedule A. If the receipt of the check was
never reported, the return of the check
should not be reported.

tailed Summary Page. This procedure is applicable regardless of
whether the amount refunded is the
full or only a partial refund of the
contribution or whether the contribution was previously reported.
Best Efforts. When the treasurer of
a political committee shows that best efforts have been used to obtain, maintain
and submit the information required, the
committee shall be considered in compliance with the Act.
With regard to reporting the identification of each person whose
contribution(s) to the committee and its
affiliated committees aggregate in excess of $200 in a calendar year, the treasurer will only be deemed to have exercised best efforts to obtain, maintain and
report the required information if all
written solicitations for contributions
include a clear request for the information (i.e., name, mailing address, occupation, name of employer) and include
an accurate statement of Federal law regarding the collection and reporting of
individual contributor identifications. In
addition, for each contribution requiring
itemization which lacks contributor information, the treasurer must, within 30
days of receipt of the contribution, make
one effort to obtain the missing information. See 11 CFR 104.7 and the Campaign Guide for more information.

Check Refunded to the Committee.
A contribution may be refunded to the
committee in one of two ways:
(1) The original check is returned
uncashed. If the contribution was
reported, the refund should be reported as a negative entry on Schedule B, and the amount of the contribution refund subtracted from the
disbursement totals on the line of
the Detailed Summary Page that it
was reported on.
(2) The original check is not returned
and the refund is made by a check
from the recipient of the contribution. Such a transaction should be
reported as a receipt on Schedule
A for the appropriate line of the De-

Page 6, Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

FE1AN056.PDF

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE B, ITEMIZED
DISBURSEMENTS (FEC
FORM 4)

The Detailed Summary Page is broken down into various categories of disbursements. Use Schedule B to list each
disbursement required to be itemized.
DO NOT combine more than one category of disbursements on the same
Schedule B. Instead, use a separate
Schedule B for each category of disbursements. The line number of the Detailed Summary Page to which each
Schedule B pertains should be identified
in the upper right corner of each Schedule. In addition, the committee’s full
name must be entered in the appropriate block.
For each disbursement required to be
itemized during the reporting period, the
political committee must provide the full
name, mailing address, date, amount,
and purpose of the disbursement.
The term “purpose” means a brief
statement or description of why the disbursement was made. Examples of adequate descriptions include the following: dinner expenses, media, salary, polling, travel, party fees, phone banks,
travel expenses, travel expense reimbursement, and catering costs. However, statements or descriptions such as
“advance,” “election day expenses,”
“other expenses,” “expense reimbursement,” “miscellaneous,” “outside services,” “get-out-the-vote,” and “voter
registration,” would not meet the requirement for reporting the purpose of
an expenditure. If the disbursement is a
“loan repayment,” “contribution refund,” or other similar category of disbursement (other than an operating expenditure), the name of the category of
disbursement (i.e., “loan repayment,”
etc.) is sufficient to meet the requirement
for reporting the purpose of an expenditure.
Along with reporting the purpose of
the expenditure as required above, the
committee should also broadly characterize disbursements by providing the
FE1AN056.PDF

code for each category of disbursement.
Examples of the types of disbursements
that fall within each of the broad categories are listed below. Use only one
code for each itemized disbursement. In
cases where the disbursement was for
several purposes, the political committee should assign one code according to
the primary purpose of the disbursement.
Note that some of the category titles are
not acceptable as the “purpose” of the
disbursement and that the categories are
not intended to replace or to serve as a
substitute for the “purpose of disbursement.”
001 Administrative/Salary/Overhead
Expenses (e.g., rent, staff salaries,
postage, office supplies, equipment, furniture, ballot access fees,
petition drives, party fees and legal and accounting expenses)
002 Travel Expenses—including
travel reimbursement expenses
(e.g., costs of commercial carrier
tickets; reimbursements for use of
private vehicles; advance payments for use of corporate aircraft;
lodging and meal expenses incurred during travel)
003 Solicitation and Fundraising Expenses (e.g., costs for direct mail
solicitations and fundraising
events including printing, mailing
lists, consultant fees, call lists, invitations, catering costs and room
rental)
004 Advertising Expenses—including
general public political advertising (e.g., purchases of radio/television broadcast/cable time, print
advertisements and related production costs)
005 Polling Expenses
006 Campaign Materials (e.g., buttons, bumper stickers, brochures,
mass mailings, pens, posters and
balloons)
007 Campaign Event Expenses (e.g.,
costs associated with candidate
appearances, campaign rallies,
town meetings, phone banks, including catering costs, door to
door get-out-the-vote efforts and
driving voters to the polls)

008 Transfers (e.g., to other affiliated/
party committees)
009 Loans (e.g., loans made or repayments of loans received)
010 Refunds of Contributions (e.g.,
contribution refunds to individuals/persons, political party committees or other political committees)
011 Political Contributions (e.g., contributions to other federal committees and candidates, and donations
to nonfederal candidates and committees)
012 Donations (e.g., donations to
charitable or civic organizations)
For disbursements that are contributions to Federal candidates, or authorized committees, the committee must
include under “Purpose of Disbursement” the name of the candidate and
office sought (including State and congressional district, where applicable) and
the aggregate year-to-date total of contributions made to that candidate or committee in the purpose of disbursement
box.
For each contribution to a Federal
candidate or authorized committee, indicate in the election check-off box the
election for which the contribution was
made. Contributions to a candidate or
authorized committee which are not designated by the contributor for a specific
election must be counted toward the
contributor’s limitation for the next election after the contribution is made. Contributions may be made for a past election only to the extent that the recipient
has net debts outstanding from that particular election. In the event the contribution was made for an election prior to
the current election cycle, the “Other”
box must be checked and the type of
election specified (e.g., “General 2000,”
“Primary 2000”). The election checkoff boxes provided for each itemized
entry on Schedule B should not be used
when itemizing operating expenditures.
The “Total This Period” amount (the
last line on Schedule B) must be added
to all other disbursements for that category which are not itemized and carried forward to Column A of the corresponding line of the Detailed Summary
Page.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 7

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Contributions In-Kind Received
Contributions in-kind received by the
committee which are itemized on Schedule A must also be itemized as an operating expenditure on Schedule B. In addition, in the “Purpose of Disbursement”
box include the notation “Contribution
In-Kind,” and the nature of the expenditure (e.g., consulting, polling, etc.).

Page 8, Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

FE1AN056.PDF

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C, LOANS (FEC
FORM 4)

A loan is a contribution at the time it
is made and is a contribution to the extent it remains unpaid. A LOAN WHICH
EXCEEDS THE CONTRIBUTION
LIMITATIONS IS UNLAWFUL
WHETHER OR NOT IT IS REPAID.
The aggregate amount loaned to a candidate or committee by another individual or political committee, when
added to other contributions from that
individual or political committee to that
candidate or committee, shall not exceed
the contribution limitations. A loan, to
the extent it is repaid, is no longer a contribution. All loans to a political committee (regardless of amount) must be
disclosed on the first report filed with
the Commission after the date the loan
is made.
When filling out Schedule C, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page.
DO NOT combine loans owed TO the
committee with those owed BY the committee on the same Schedule C. Instead,
use a separate Schedule C. Each loan
should be reported separately until extinguished.
Loans Owed By The Committee
When a loan is received by the committee, it must be itemized on Schedule
A and must also be disclosed on Schedule C (see also instructions for Schedule A for itemizing loans received by the
committee). For each loan owed BY the
reporting committee at the close of the
reporting period, the committee must
report certain basic information on
Schedule C in the appropriate boxes: (1)
full name, mailing address and zip code
of the creditor; (2) if the committee is
an authorized committee, the election to
which the loan applies (i.e., primary,
general or other); (3) the original amount
of the loan; (4) the cumulative payment
to date on the loan; and (5) the outstanding balance at the close of the reporting
FE1AN056.PDF

period (i.e., the remaining unpaid portion of the loan).
Certain additional information must
be entered on Schedule C in the box
entitled TERMS: (1) if an intermediary
is reported as the source of the loan, the
original source of the loan (which must
be disclosed in the first box for endorsers and guarantors with a notation that
the person identified is the original
source); (2) the date the obligation was
incurred; (3) the date the loan is due or
the amortization schedule (if there is no
due date or amortization schedule, enter “None” on the appropriate line); (4)
the actual rate of interest charged on each
loan (if the loan does not bear an interest rate, enter “None” on the appropriate line); and (5) check the box if the
loan has been secured.
In instances where the loan has endorsers or guarantors, the following information must be supplied: (1) the identification of each endorser or guarantor,
and (2) the amount of the endorsement
or guarantee outstanding at the close of
the reporting period. The term “identification” means (a) in the case of an individual, his or her full name, mailing
address, occupation, and name of employer; and (b) in the case of any other
person, the person’s full name and address.
Loans owed BY the committee must
continue to be reported on each subsequent report until repaid. When a payment is made to reduce or extinguish the
amount of a loan owed BY the committee, the payment must be itemized on
Schedule B, reported on the appropriate
line of the Detailed Summary Page, and
included in the “Cumulative Payment to
Date” column on Schedule C. If any extension for repayment is granted, this
should be reported on the first report
after the extension is made.
If a loan is settled for less than the
reported amount, the reporting committee must include a statement as to the
circumstances and conditions under
which the debt or obligation was extinguished and the amount paid. A loan
owed BY a political committee which
is forgiven or settled for less than the
amount owed is a contribution. The total amount of loans owed BY the committee at the close of the reporting pe-

riod must be entered on the line for “Total This Period” on the bottom of the last
page and transferred to Line 3 of the last
page of Schedule D. If no debts or obligations are reported on Schedule D,
carry the outstanding balance forward
to the Summary Page.
Loans Owed To The Committee
When a loan is made by the committee, it must be itemized on Schedule B
and must also be disclosed on Schedule
C (see also instructions for Schedule B
for itemizing loans made by the committee). For each loan owed TO the
committee at the close of the reporting
period, the committee must report certain basic information on Schedule C in
the appropriate boxes: (1) the full name,
mailing address and zip code of each
debtor; (2) if the loan was made by a
political committee other than an authorized committee and was made to a Federal candidate or authorized committee,
the election to which the loan applies
(i.e., primary, general or other); (3) the
original amount of the loan; (4) the cumulative payment to date on the loan;
and (5) the outstanding balance at the
close of the reporting period (i.e., the remaining unpaid portion of the loan).
Certain additional information must
be entered on Schedule C in the box
entitled TERMS: (1) the date the obligation was incurred; (2) the date the loan
is due or the amortization schedule (if
there is no due date or amortization
schedule, enter “None” on the appropriate line; (3) the actual rate of interest
charged on the loan (if the loan does not
bear an interest rate, enter “None” on
the appropriate line); and (4) check the
box if the loan has been secured. Loans
owed TO the committee must continue
to be reported on each subsequent report until repaid. When a payment is
received to reduce or extinguish a loan
owed TO the committee, the payment
must be itemized on Schedule A, reported on the appropriate line of the
Detailed Summary Page, and included
in the “Cumulative Payment to Date”
column on Schedule C. If any extension of repayment is granted or made,
this should be reported on the first report after the extension is made.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 9

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

The total amount of loans owed TO
the committee at the close of the reporting period must be entered on the line
for “Total This Period” on the bottom
of the last page and transferred to Line
3 of the last page of Schedule D. If no
debts or obligations are reported on
Schedule D, carry the outstanding balance forward to the Summary Page.
Miscellaneous
Loans by Financial Institutions. A
loan of money by a State bank, a federally chartered depository institution (including a national bank) or a depository
institution whose deposits and accounts
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation,
or the National Credit Union Administration is not a contribution by the lending institution if the loan is made in accordance with applicable banking laws
and regulations and is made in the ordinary course of business. A loan will be
deemed to be made in the ordinary
course of business if it: bears the usual
and customary interest rate of the lending institution for the category of loan
involved; is made on a basis that assures
repayment; is evidenced by a written instrument; and is subject to a due date or
an amortization schedule.
Candidate Loans. If a candidate personally receives a loan from a financial
institution or other person, which is
loaned or given to the campaign or used
in the campaign, the candidate’s principal campaign committee must disclose
all information with respect to that loan.
The financial institution or other person
must be listed as the original source of
the loan and the candidate listed as an
intermediary. Loans obtained by an individual prior to becoming a candidate
for use in connection with that
individual’s campaign must be reported
as an outstanding loan owed TO the
lender by the candidate’s principal campaign committee, if the loan is outstanding at the time the individual becomes a
candidate.

Loans by Political Committees. If
a political committee makes a loan TO
any person, the loan shall be subject to
the contribution limitations. Repayment
to the political committee of the principal amount of the loan is not a contribution by the debtor to the lender committee. The repayment must be made with
funds which are permissible under the
Act. The payment of interest to the committee by the debtor is a contribution
only to the extent that the interest paid
exceeds a commercially reasonable rate
prevailing at the time the loan is made.
All payments of interest must be made
from funds which are permissible under the Act.

rized committees, the total amount of
loan repayments of loans made or guaranteed by the candidate and the total
amount of loan repayments of all other
loans must be disclosed on the appropriate lines of the Detailed Summary
Page.

Endorsers and Guarantors. A loan
is a contribution by each endorser or
guarantor. Each endorser or guarantor
shall be deemed to have contributed that
portion of the total amount of the loan
for which he or she agreed to be liable
in a written agreement. Any reduction
in the unpaid balance of the loan shall
reduce proportionately the amount endorsed or guaranteed by each endorser
or guarantor in such written agreement.
In the event that such agreement does
not stipulate the portion of the loan for
which each endorser or guarantor is liable, the loan shall be considered a loan
by each endorser or guarantor in the
same proportion to the unpaid balance
that each endorser or guarantor bears to
the total number of endorsers or guarantors.
Loan Repayments. Each committee must disclose all loan payments received or made by the committee. When
a loan repayment is received by a committee, the repayment must be itemized
on Schedule A and included in the “Cumulative Payment to Date” column on
Schedule C. When a loan repayment is
made by a committee, the repayment
must be itemized on Schedule B and included in the “Cumulative Payment to
Date” column on Schedule C. For a political committee other than an authorized committee, the total amount of loan
repayments received and the total
amount of loan repayments made must
be disclosed on the appropriate lines of
the Detailed Summary Page. For autho-

Page 10, Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

FE1AN056.PDF

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C-1, LOANS AND
LINES OF CREDIT FROM
LENDING INSTITUTIONS (FEC
FORM 4)

Background: FEC Regulations
on Loans from Lending
Institutions
Schedule C-1 seeks information on
loans—including lines of credit—from
lending institutions such as state or federally chartered banks, federally insured
savings and loan associations or federally insured credit unions. The purpose
of Schedule C-1 is to verify that a loan
or line of credit does not result in a prohibited contribution from the lending
institution, a violation of the federal
campaign finance law.
Under FEC regulations at 11 CFR
100.7(b)(11) and 100.8(b)(12), a loan
“made in accordance with applicable
banking laws” and “in the ordinary
course of business” is not considered a
contribution if certain conditions are
met. One of these conditions is that the
loan “is made on a basis which assures
repayment.” Schedule C-1 documents
whether or not the loan complies with
these requirements.
Who Must File Schedule C-1
A political committee that obtains a
loan or line of credit from a bank or other
lending institution must file Schedule C1. An authorized committee of a candidate must also file Schedule C-1 if the
candidate obtains a loan or line of credit
from a bank or other lending institution
and the borrowed funds are used for
campaign purposes.
11 CFR
104.3(d)(1). (See Schedule C instructions on Candidate Loans.)
When to File Schedule C-1
A Schedule C-1 must be filed for each
loan and each line of credit obtained
from a lending institution. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1).

FE1AN056.PDF

Loans. A committee must file a
Schedule C-1 with its next report when
it first obtains a loan and in succeeding
reporting periods each time the terms of
the loan are restructured. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1) and (3). (A restructured loan
is considered a new loan.)
Lines of Credit. A committee must
file a Schedule C-1 with its next report
when a line of credit is established and
in succeeding reporting periods each
time any draws are made on the line of
credit and each time the line of credit is
restructured to change the repayment
terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1) and (3).
Reporting Loans and Lines of
Credit on Schedules A and C
Schedule A. When a candidate or
committee obtains a loan, the committee must itemize the receipt on a Schedule A for the appropriate line number.
However, a line of credit is itemized on
Schedule A only when the candidate or
committee obtains funds by making a
draw on the credit.
Schedule C. As with all loans, loans
from lending institutions (including lines
of credit) must be continuously disclosed on Schedule C, starting with the
first report due after the committee obtains the loan and continuing with each
report thereafter until the loan is repaid.
Line-by-Line Instructions
Schedule C Cross-Reference. Enter
the Schedule C page number where information on the loan or line of credit
appears.
Name of Committee Obtaining Loan.
Enter the full name of the reporting committee.
Identification Number. Enter the reporting committee’s FEC identification
number. If the committee is newly registered and has not yet obtained a number, enter “not yet assigned.”
Name/Address of Lender. Enter the
full name, address and zip code of the
lending institution.

Loan Amount. Enter the amount of
the loan or line of credit. If reporting a
restructured loan or line of credit, enter
the amount under the new terms.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i) and (3).
Interest Rate. Enter the annual percentage rate (APR) of interest on the
loan or each draw on the line of credit.
If reporting a restructured loan or line
of credit, enter the interest rate under the
new terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii) and
(3).
Date Incurred or Established. Enter
the date the candidate or committee incurred the debt by signing the loan
agreement (the original agreement or a
restructured agreement, as appropriate).
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i) and (3).
Due Date. Enter the date on which
full repayment of the loan or line of
credit is due (under the original agreement or a restructured agreement, as appropriate). 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii) and
(3).
A. Restructured Loans. Check yes if
the loan or line of credit has been restructured to change the terms; enter the
date on which the original loan or line
of credit was incurred. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(3).
B. Draws on Line of Credit. If reporting a draw on a line of credit, enter
the amount of the draw and the outstanding balance owed on the line of credit
(cumulative draws less any repayments
made). 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii).
C. Secondary Sources of Repayment.
Check yes if the loan or line of credit
was endorsed or guaranteed by secondary parties. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii).
Information on endorsers and guarantors
must be disclosed on Schedule C. (Note
that guarantees and endorsements of
loans are considered contributions; see
Schedule C instructions.)
D. Traditional Collateral. Check yes
if the loan or line of credit was obtained
using traditional sources of collateral,
and list the specific assets that were
pledged. Enter the total fair market

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 11

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

value of the collateral as of the date of
the loan agreement. Indicate whether
the lender has a perfected security interest in the collateral. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(iii). (Note that a perfected
security interest is a requirement under
FEC
regulations.
11 CFR
100.7(b)(11)(i)(A)(1)
and
100.8(b)(12)(i)(A)(1).)
E. Future Receipts as Collateral.
Check yes if the loan or line of credit
was obtained using future receipts as
collateral; list the types of receipts that
were pledged; and enter their estimated
amount. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii). Enter the date the separate account was established for the deposit of pledged receipts. (A depository account is required
under 11 CFR 100.7(b)(11)(i)(B) and
100.8(b)(12)(i)(B).) Provide the full
name and address of the depository institution where the account was established.
F. Other Means of Obtaining Loan.
Complete this section if “no” was
checked in sections C, D, and E or if the
amount cosigned and/or pledged for the
loan or line of credit is less than the loan
amount. If so, state the basis upon which
the loan was made and the basis on
which it assures repayment. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(iv).
G. Treasurer’s Signature and Date.
The committee treasurer (or properly
designated assistant treasurer) must sign
and date the form; the signer’s name
should be printed or typed beside the signature.
H. Copy of Loan Agreement. Attach a copy of the signed agreement.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(2).
I. Lender Certification. An authorized representative of the lending institution must sign and date the form to
certify that the lender has complied with
items I through III.
11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(v). The representative’s
name should be printed or typed beside
his or her signature. The representative’s
title must also be entered.

Page 12, Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

FE1AN056.PDF

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 4 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE D, DEBTS AND
OBLIGATIONS (FEC FORM 4)

When filling out Schedule D, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page.
DO NOT combine debts and obligations owed to the committee with those
owed by the committee on the same
Schedule D. Instead, use a separate
Schedule D.
Debts and Obligations Owed BY
the Committee (Other Than
Loans)
For debts and obligations owed BY
the reporting committee at the close of
the reporting period and which are required to be disclosed, the committee
must report the full name and mailing
address of each creditor, the amount of
the debt outstanding at the beginning of
the period, the amount of the debt or obligation incurred this period (including
any finance charges), the payment(s) this
period to retire the debt or obligation,
the outstanding balance at the close of
the reporting period and the nature or
purpose of the debt and obligation. The
terms “nature” or “purpose” mean a brief
statement or description of why the debt
or obligation was incurred (e.g., media,
salary, polling, supplies, mailing).
A written contract (including a media contract), promise, or agreement to
make an expenditure which has not been
paid for by the committee is an expenditure as of the date the contract, promise or obligation is made and is subject
to the reporting requirements. Accounts
payable and written contracts, promises,
or agreements to make expenditures, in
amounts of $500 or less, need not be
disclosed until outstanding for sixty days
or more.
Debts and obligations owed BY the
committee must continue to be reported
on each subsequent report until extinguished or settled in a manner permitted by Federal Election Commission
regulations (see 11 CFR Part 116 for
settlement of corporate debts). When a
FE1AN056.PDF

payment is made to reduce or extinguish
an obligation owed BY the committee,
the payment must be itemized on Schedule B, reported on the appropriate line
of the Detailed Summary Page, and included in the “Payment This Period” column on Schedule D. If a debt or obligation is settled for less than the reported
amount or value, the reporting committee must include a statement as to the
circumstances and conditions under
which the debt or obligation was extinguished and the amount paid. A debt
owed BY a political committee which
is forgiven or settled for less than the
amount owed is a contribution unless the
debt is forgiven or settled in accordance
with 11 CFR Part 116. The extension
of credit by any person for a length of
time beyond normal business or trade
practice is a contribution, unless the
creditor has made a commercially reasonable attempt to collect the debt. The
total amount of debts and obligations
owed BY the committee during the reporting period must be entered at the
bottom of the last page under “Total This
Period” and added to the total loans
owed BY the committee from Schedule
C. The total amount of debts and obligations owed BY the committee (including loans) must be carried forward to the
Summary Page.

to make contributions are not required
to be reported.
Debts and obligations owed TO the
committee must continue to be reported
on each subsequent report until extinguished. When a payment is received
to reduce or extinguish a debt or obligation owed TO the committee, the payment must be itemized on Schedule A,
reported on the appropriate line of the
Detailed Summary Page, and included
in the “Payment This Period” column on
Schedule D. The total amount of debts
and obligations owed TO the committee during the reporting period must be
entered at the bottom of the last page
under “Total This Period” and added to
the total loans owed TO the committee
from Schedule C. The total amount of
debts and obligations owed TO the committee (including loans) must be carried
forward to the Summary Page.

Debts and Obligations Owed TO
the Committee (Other Than
Loans)
For each debt and obligation owed
TO the committee at the close of the reporting period, the committee must report: the full name and mailing address
of each debtor, the amount of the debt
outstanding at the beginning of the period, the amount of the debt or obligation incurred this period, the payment(s)
this period to retire the debt or obligation, the outstanding balance at the close
of the reporting period and the nature or
purpose of the debt or obligation. The
terms “nature” or “purpose” mean a brief
statement or description of why the debt
or obligation was incurred (e.g., media,
salary, polling, supplies, mailing). Written contracts or agreements (such as
signed pledge cards), or oral promises

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001), Page 13

