INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Report of Receipts and Disbursements for
Other than an Authorized Committee (FEC FORM 3X)
(Filed by party committees and
political action committees
(PACs))
Use FEC FORM 3X to ﬁle your
report. Listed below are the summary
pages and schedules of FEC FORM
3X, with an explanation of what each
discloses.
FEC FORM 3X: Page 1, Report of
Receipts and Disbursements
Identiﬁes the committee, the type of
report and the reporting period.
FEC FORM 3X: Page 2, Summary
Page
Identiﬁes the committee; discloses
the committee’s total receipts and
disbursements for the reporting period
and the calendar year to date.
FEC FORM 3X: Pages 3 – 5,
Detailed Summary Page
Summarizes receipts and disbursements by type of activity; shows reporting period and calendar year to
date totals for each type of activity.
FEC FORM 3X: Schedules
A: Provides detailed information
for each receipt that is required to be
itemized. Use a separate Schedule A
to support each Line number that
appears on the Detailed Summary
Page.
B: Provides detailed information
for each disbursement that is required
to be itemized. Use a separate Schedule B to support each Line number
that appears on the Detailed Summary
Page.
C: Shows all loans, endorsements
and loan guarantees the committee
receives or makes.
C-1: Shows all loans and lines of
credit made by lending institutions to
the committee.
D: Shows debts and obligations
owed to or by the committee that are
required to be disclosed.
FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

E: Shows all independent expenditures made during the reporting
period. Schedule may also be used
to separately disclose last-minute
independent expenditures of $1,000
or more made between the 20th day
and 24 hours before the date of an
election.
F: Shows all coordinated party
expenditures. (Used by party committees only.)
H1: Shows method of allocation
for allocated federal and nonfederal
administrative expenses, exempt activity costs and generic voter drive costs,
allocated federal/Levin fund “federal
election activity” expenses (for State,
district and local party committees
only) and allocated public communications that refer only to a party (for
PACs only).
H2: Shows allocation ratios for
other allocated federal and nonfederal
activity, including individual fundraising events and direct candidate support appearing on the report.
H3: Shows transfers from nonfederal accounts to federal accounts
for the purpose of paying allocable
expenses.
H4: Shows disbursements for allocated federal and nonfederal activity.
H5: Shows transfers of Levin
funds for allocable federal election
activity.
H6: Shows disbursements of federal and Levin funds for allocable
federal election activity.
L: Aggregation page for showing
receipt and disbursement of Levin
funds.
L-A: Memo schedule for itemizing
receipts of Levin funds.
L-B: Memo schedule for itemizing
disbursements of Levin funds.
Illegible and Non-FEC Forms
Illegible reports and reports submitted on non-FEC forms are not
acceptable and must be reﬁled.

Electronic Filing
Political committees must ﬁle reports in an electronic format under
11 CFR 104.18 if they either receive
contributions or make expenditures
in excess of $50,000 during the calendar year, or if they have reason to
expect that they will exceed either
of those thresholds. If the committee has reached this level of activity,
DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON
PAPER. Instead, you must ﬁle this
form in an electronic format. See the
instructions for more information on
ﬁling electronically.
Computerized Format
FEC FORM 3X may be ﬁled by
paper ﬁlers in a computerized format,
but the Commission must approve the
computerized format before the report
is ﬁled. Submit sample formats to the
Reports Analysis Division.
Faxing Forms
Most reports may not be ﬁled by
FAX because original signatures are
required.
Other Forms and Their Uses
The forms listed below are also
available. When ordering, please order
by form number.
FEC FORM 1: Statement of
Organization
Used by all political committees
to register under the federal election
law.
FEC FORM 1M: Notiﬁcation of
Multicandidate Status
Used by PACs and party committees to notify the Commission of
their status as a multicandidate committee.

Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEC FORM 7: Report of
Communications Costs by
Corporations and Membership
Organizations
Used by corporations and labor
organizations to disclose internal partisan communication costs that exceed
$2,000 for an election.
FEC FORM 8: Debt Settlement
Plan
Used by terminating committees
to disclose the terms of debt settlements.
These Forms may be duplicated.
To obtain additional forms, call
the Information Division at 1800/424-9530 or 202/694-1100 or
visit the FECʼs Web site at www.
fec.gov.

Page 2

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SUMMARY PAGE (FEC FORM
3X, PAGES 1–2)
Who Must File
Any political committee which
is not an authorized committee is
required to ﬁle periodic Reports of
Receipts and Disbursements on FEC
FORM 3X.
Note: Political committees must
ﬁle reports in an electronic format
under 11 CFR 104.18 if they have
either received contributions or made
expenditures in excess of $50,000, or
if they have reason to expect that they
will exceed either of those thresholds
during the calendar year. If the committee has reached this level of activity, DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON
PAPER. Instead, you must ﬁle this
form in an electronic format.
A political committee is considered
to have reason to expect it will exceed
the electronic ﬁling threshold for the
next two calendar years after the calendar year in which it exceeds $50,000
in contributions or expenditures. If it
is a new committee, it is considered to
have reason to expect it will exceed the
electronic ﬁling threshold if it exceeds
$12,500 in contributions or expenditures during the ﬁrst calendar quarter
of the calendar year, or $25,000 in
contributions or expenditures in the
ﬁrst half of the calendar year.
Contact the FEC for more information on ﬁling electronically.
ALL POLITICAL COMMITTEES AUTHORIZED IN WRITING BY A CANDIDATE FOR THE
OFFICE OF PRESIDENT OR VICE
PRESIDENT MUST FILE ON FEC
FORM 3P.
ALL POLITICAL COMMITTEES AUTHORIZED BY A CANDIDATE FOR THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES OR SENATE
MUST FILE ON FEC FORM 3.
When to File
All political committees required
to ﬁle on FEC FORM 3X must ﬁle
either: election and non-election year

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

reports as speciﬁed in (A) below; or
monthly reports as speciﬁed in (B)
below.
Note: State, district and local committees of political parties that are
political committees under the Act
must disclose receipts and disbursements for Federal election activity. If
the committee’s aggregate amount of
such receipts and disbursement is less
than $5,000 in a calendar year, it must
report only receipts and disbursements
of Federal funds for Federal election
activity. If the aggregate amount of
such receipts and disbursements during the calendar year equals or exceeds
$5,000, the committee must report all
receipts and disbursements for Federal
election activity. 2 U.S.C. §434(e)(2).
The reporting periods for political
party committees disclosing receipts
and disbursements for Federal election activity are monthly, except for
pre-general and post-general election
reports. 2 U.S.C. §434(e)(4) (citing
2 U.S.C. §434(a)(4)(B)). Otherwise,
political committees that are State, district and local committees of political
parties must ﬁle quarterly and pre- and
post-election reports in election years
and semi-annual reports in non-election years for their other activity. 2
U.S.C. §434(a).
(A) Election Year and NonElection Year Reports
In any calendar year in which there
is a “regular” November general
election, the following reports are required:
•Quarterly reports must be ﬁled no
later than April 15, July 15, October
15 and January 31 of the following
calendar year. Each such report
must disclose all transactions from
the last report filed through the
last day of the calendar quarter. A
quarterly report is not required to
be ﬁled if a Pre-Election report is
required to be ﬁled during the period
beginning on the 5th day and ending
on the 15th day after the close of the
calendar quarter.
•Pre-Election reports must be ﬁled no
later than the 12th day before any
primary or general election in which

the committee supports (i.e., makes
contributions to or expenditures on
behalf of) or opposes a candidate
and must include all transactions
from the closing date of the last report ﬁled through the 20th day before
the election. A 12-Day Pre-Election
Report sent by certiﬁed or registered
mail must be mailed no later than
the 15th day before the election. A
Pre-Primary election report is not
required where the contribution(s)
or expenditure(s) has been disclosed
on a previous report.
•All committees must ﬁle a 30-Day
Post-General Election Report. A 30Day Post-General Election Report
must be ﬁled no later than 30-Days
after the general election and include
all transactions from the closing date
of the last report ﬁled through the
20th day after the general election.
In any other calendar year, the following reports are required:
•A Mid Year Report must be ﬁled no
later than July 31 and include transactions beginning January 1 and
ending June 30.
•A Year End Report must be ﬁled no
later than January 31 of the following
calendar year and include transactions beginning July 1 and ending
December 31.
(B) Monthly Reports
Monthly reports must be ﬁled no
later than 20 days after the last day
of the month and must disclose all
transactions from the last report ﬁled
through the last day of the month.
In lieu of the monthly reports due in
November and December for a year in
which there is a “regular” November
general election, a 12-Day Pre-General
election report must be ﬁled including
all transactions from the closing date
of the last report ﬁled through the
20th day before the election and a 30Day Post-General election report must
be ﬁled including all transactions from
the closing date of the Pre-Election
report through the 20th day after the
general election. A Year End Report
must be ﬁled no later than January
31 of the following calendar year and
include transactions from the closing
date of the Post-General Election
Page 3

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Report through the last day of the
calendar year.
Except for State, district and local party committees required to ﬁle
monthly under 11 CFR 300.36(c)(1)
(see above) and national party committees required to ﬁle monthly under 11 CFR 104.5(c)(4), a political
committee may elect to change the
frequency of its reporting from quarterly and semi-annually under (A)
to monthly under (B) or vice versa.
A committee may change its filing
frequency only after notifying the
Commission in writing of its intention
at the time it ﬁles a required report
under its current ﬁling frequency. The
committee will then be required to ﬁle
the next required report under its new
ﬁling frequency. A committee may
change its ﬁling frequency no more
than once per calendar year.
A document is timely ﬁled upon
delivery to the appropriate office
(see “Where To File”) by the close
of the prescribed ﬁling date or upon
deposit as registered or certiﬁed mail
in an established U.S. Post Ofﬁce and
postmarked no later than midnight of
the day the report is due, except that
Pre-Election Reports so mailed must
be postmarked no later than midnight
of the 15th day before the date of the
election. Reports and statements sent
by ﬁrst class mail must be received
by the appropriate ofﬁce by the close
of business of the prescribed ﬁling
date to be timely ﬁled. Reports ﬁled
electronically are timely ﬁled if the
report is received and validated by
the Commission’s computer system
on or before 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight Savings time on the
prescribed ﬁling date.
Where to File
An original and any amendments
to an original report must be ﬁled as
follows:
•Committees which support or oppose
only a candidate(s) for the Senate must
ﬁle with the Secretary of the Senate,
Ofﬁce of Public Records, 232 Hart
Senate Ofﬁce Building, Washington,
D.C. 20510-7116. Mail addressed to
the Secretary of the Senate should
Page 4

read: “Ofﬁce of Public Records, P.O.
Box 5109, Alexandria, VA 223010109.”
•All other committees must ﬁle with
the Federal Election Commission,
999 E Street, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20463.
Political committees filing FEC
FORM 3X must ﬁle with the Secretary
of State (or appropriate state ofﬁcer)
of each state a copy of that portion
of the report applicable to candidates
seeking election in that state, with the
exception of those states that have
qualiﬁed for the Commission’s state
ﬁling waiver program. A list of qualiﬁed states is available from the Federal
Election Commission.

Treasurerʼs Responsibilities
A copy of this Report must be preserved by the treasurer of the political
committee for a period of not less than
three years from the date of ﬁling. The
treasurer of the political committee is
personally responsible for the timely
and complete ﬁling of the report and
the accuracy of any information contained in it.

Report Preparation
•A political committee may use any
recordkeeping or accounting system
which will enable it to comply with
the Act.
•The Commission recommends that
the political committee keep a recordkeeping or accounting system
that keeps a separate accounting
for each of the various categories
of receipts and disbursements on
pages 3, 4 and 5 (Detailed Summary
Page). This separate accounting will
help the political committee ﬁll out
the reporting forms, since separate
reporting schedules are required for
each category.
•The reporting schedules should be
ﬁlled out so that totals can be derived
for each category.
•The total ﬁgures should be carried
forward to pages 3, 4 and 5 (Detailed
Summary Page) and then (where
appropriate) from the Detailed
Summary Page to page 2 (Summary
Page).
•Pages 3, 4 and 5 (Detailed Summary
Page) should be ﬁlled out before completing page 2 (Summary Page).

LINE 3. If this is an original report,
check the “NEW” box. If this is an
amendment to a previous report,
check the “AMENDED” box.

Line-by-Line Instructions for
Page 2 (Summary Page)
LINE 1. Enter the complete name and
mailing address of your committee.
LINE 2. Enter the FEC Identiﬁcation
Number assigned to the committee.

LINE 4. Check the appropriate box
for “Type of Report”. If the report
is a 12-Day Pre-Election or 30-Day
Post-General election report, supply
the type of election (primary, general,
convention, special or run-off), the
date of the election, and the State in
which the election is held.
LINE 5. Enter the coverage dates for
this report. All activity from the ending coverage date of the last report
ﬁled must be included.
LINE 6(a). Enter the total amount
of cash on hand at the beginning of
the calendar year. The term “cash
on hand” includes: currency; balance
on deposit in banks, savings and loan
institutions, and other depository institutions; traveler’s checks owned by
the committee; certiﬁcates of deposit,
treasury bills and other committee
investments valued at cost.
LINE 6(b). Enter the total amount of
cash on hand at the beginning of the
reporting period.
LINE 6(c). Transfer the amounts from
Column A and Column B of Line 19
to the corresponding Columns on
Line 6(c).

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

LINE 6(d). Add Lines 6(b) and 6(c) to
derive the ﬁgure for Column A, and
add Lines 6(a) and 6(c) to derive the
ﬁgure for Column B.
LINE 7. Transfer the amounts from
Column A and Column B of Line
31 to the corresponding Columns on
Line 7.
LINE 8. For both Column A and
Column B subtract Line 7 from Line
6(d) to derive the ﬁgure (which should
be the same for both columns) for cash
on hand at the close of the reporting
period of Line 8.
LINE 9. Transfer the total amount of
debts and obligations owed TO the
committee from Schedule C or D.
LINE 10. Transfer the total amount
of debts and obligations owed BY the
committee from Schedule C or D.
Multicandidate Committee
Status
Check box if the political committee has qualiﬁed as a “multicandidate
committee” and has ﬁled FORM 1M.
A committee qualiﬁes as a “multicandidate committee” when it:
(i) has been registered with the Commission or Secretary of the Senate
for at least six months;
(ii) has received contributions for
federal elections from more than
50 persons; and
(iii) (except for any State political
party organization) has made contributions to ﬁve or more federal
candidates; or satisfies requirements (i)-(iii) by afﬁliation with
another committee.

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Page 5

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
DETAILED SUMMARY PAGE
(FEC FORM 3X, PAGES 3, 4
AND 5)
A political committee must report
the total amount of receipts and
disbursements during the reporting
period and during the calendar year
for each category of receipts and disbursements on FEC FORM 3X. The
committee’s full name and the coverage dates of the report must be entered
in the appropriate blocks. If there are
no receipts or disbursements for a particular category for a reporting period
or calendar year, enter “0”.
To derive the “Calendar Year-toDate” ﬁgure for each category, the
political committee should add the
“Calendar Year-to-Date” total from
the previous report to the “Total This
Period” from Column A for the current report. For the ﬁrst report ﬁled
for a calendar year, the “Calendar
Year-to-Date” ﬁgure is equal to the
“Total This Period” ﬁgure.
LINE 11(a)(i). Itemized Contributions from Individuals/Persons Other
Than Political Committees. Enter
the total amount of contributions
(other than loans) from individuals,
partnerships, and other persons who
are not political committees that are
required to be itemized on Schedule A.
For each such person who has made
one or more contributions during the
calendar year aggregating in excess
of $200, the committee must itemize
on Schedule A and provide the identiﬁcation (full name, mailing address,
occupation and name of employer) of
the person, date and amount of each
contribution aggregating in excess of
$200 and the aggregate year-to-date
total.
LINE 11(a)(ii). Unitemized Contributions from Individuals/Persons Other
Than Political Committees. Enter
the total amount of all contributions
from individuals/persons other than
political committees not required to
be itemized on Schedule A.
Page 6

LINE 11(a)(iii). Total Contributions
from Individuals/Persons Other Than
Political Committees. Add Lines
11(a)(i) and 11(a)(ii) to derive the ﬁgure for Column A. For the Column
B ﬁgure, see above instructions on
how to calculate the Calendar Yearto-Date ﬁgure.
LINE 11(b). Contributions from Political Party Committees. For political
committees (other than political party
committees), enter the total amount
of contributions (other than loans)
from political party committees on
Line 11(b). These contributions must
be itemized on Schedule A, regardless
of the amount. For each contribution, provide the identiﬁcation (full
name and address) of the committee,
date and amount of the contribution
and the aggregate year-to-date total.
Political party committees should use
Line 12.
LINE 11(c). Contributions from
Other Political Committees (such as
PACs). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
other political committees on Line
11(c). These contributions must be
itemized on Schedule A, regardless of
the amount. For each contribution,
provide the identiﬁcation (full name
and address) of the committee, date
and amount of the contribution and
the aggregate year-to-date total. Do
not abbreviate committee names.
LINE 11(d). Total Contributions. For
both Column A and Column B add
Lines 11(a)(iii), 11(b) and 11(c) to
derive the ﬁgures for Line 11(d).
LINE 12. Transfers from Afﬁliated/
Other Party Committees. Political
party committees must enter the total
amount of transfers from other party
committees on Line 12. All other
political committees must enter the
total amount of transfers from other
afﬁliated committees on Line 12. (See
also 11 CFR 102.5 and 102.6.) Loans
and loan repayments received from
other political party committees or
afﬁliated committees (as appropriate)
must be included on Line 12, and not
on Line 13. These transfers must be

itemized on Schedule A, regardless of
the amount. For each transfer provide
the identiﬁcation (full name and mailing address) of the committee, date
and amount of the transfer and the
aggregate year-to-date total.
LINE 13. All Loans Received. Enter
the total amount of loans received
(other than loans from afﬁliated/other
party committees) on Line 13. All
loans received by the committee must
be itemized on Schedule A, regardless of the amount. For each loan,
provide the identiﬁcation (full name,
mailing address and, where applicable,
occupation and name of employer)
of the person making the loan, date
and amount of the loan and the aggregate year-to-date total. The committee must also provide on Schedule
C the identiﬁcation of any endorser
or guarantor and the amount of the
endorsement or guarantee. (See also
instructions for Schedule C.)
LINE 14. Loan Repayments Received.
Enter the total amount of loan repayments received (other than loan
repayments from afﬁliated/other party
committees) on Line 14. All loan
repayments received by the committee must be itemized on Schedule A,
regardless of the amount. For each
loan repayment, provide the identiﬁcation of the person making the loan
repayment, date and amount of the
loan repayment and the aggregate
year-to-date total.
LINE 15. Offsets to Operating Expenditures. Enter the total amount
of offsets to operating expenditures
(including refunds, rebates, and returns of deposits) on Line 15. For
each person who provides rebates,
refunds and other offsets to operating
expenditures aggregating in excess of
$200 for the calendar year, the committee must provide on Schedule A the
identiﬁcation of the person, date and
amount of each receipt aggregating
in excess of $200 and the aggregate
year-to-date total.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

LINE 16. Refunds of Contributions
Made to Federal Candidates and
Other Political Committees. Enter the
total amount of refunds of contributions made to federal candidates and
other political committees on Line
16. If the original check was passed
through the account of the recipient
committee and a check for the refund
is written on the recipient committee’s
account, the refund must be itemized
as a receipt on Schedule A, regardless
of the amount, and the amount of the
refund must be included in the total
ﬁgure for Line 16. For each contribution refund received, provide the
full name and address of the federal
candidate or political committee, date
and amount of the refund and the aggregate year-to-date total. DO NOT
use this Line if the original check is
returned uncashed. The return must
be reported as a negative entry on
Schedule B and subtracted from the
total amount for Line 23.

LINE 18(b). Transfers from Levin
Funds. Enter the total of any transfers from Levin funds brought to
the federal account or a separate allocation account in order to pay for
allocated federal/Levin “federal election activity.” Only committees with
separate federal and Levin funds who
undertake allocated federal election
activity should report transfers from
Levin funds or accounts. The total
transfers for this period come from
the last page of Schedule H5 which
itemizes any such transfers made for
allocated activity.

LINE 17. Other Federal Receipts. Enter the total amount of other receipts
(including dividends and interest) on
Line 17. For each person who provides any dividends, interest or other
receipts aggregating in excess of $200
for the calendar year, the committee
must provide on Schedule A the identiﬁcation of the person, the date and
amount of each receipt aggregating
in excess of $200 and the aggregate
year-to-date total.

LINE 20. Total Federal Receipts. This
Line represents the difference between
total receipts reported on Line 19 and
the sum of any transfers into the federal account by nonfederal account(s)
for allocated activity or from Levin
funds for allocated federal election
activity. The value is equal to Line 19
minus Line 18(c).

LINE 18(a). Transfers from Nonfederal Account for Allocated Activity.
Enter the total of any transfers from
nonfederal accounts to the federal account or a separate allocation account
in order to pay for allocated federal/
nonfederal activity. Only committees
with separate federal and nonfederal
accounts who undertake allocated
activity affecting both types of campaigns may make transfers among
these accounts. The total transfers for
this period come from the last page of
Schedule H3 which itemizes any such
transfers made for allocated activity.
See the instructions for Schedule H3
for more information.

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

LINE 18(c). Total Transfers. For both
Column A and Column B add Lines
18(a) and 18(b) to derive the ﬁgures
for Line 18(c).
LINE 19. Total Receipts. For both
Column A and Column B add the
totals on Lines 11(d), 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, and 18(c) to derive the ﬁgures
for Line 19.

LINE 21. Note: Line 21(a) is required
only for those committees undertaking
activity which is allocated among federal and nonfederal accounts. Committees with no nonfederal accounts,
or who do not undertake activities
which are allocated among federal
and nonfederal accounts complete
only Lines 21(b) and (c). All operating expenses for those purely federal
committees must be included on Line
21(b).
Operating Expenditures: Enter the
total amount of operating expenditures and allocated federal/nonfederal
activity on the appropriate Line under Line 21. Examples of operating
expenditures are: travel, rent and
telephones. Committees report only
those operating expenditures paid for
from committee funds.

LINE 21(a). Allocated Federal/Nonfederal Activity. Enter the federal portion of all operating expenses for allocated federal and nonfederal activity
on Line 21(a)(i). This is equal to the
federal share value from the bottom
of the last page of Schedule H4 for
this period. These allocated activities
– including allocated disbursements
for administrative expenses, generic
voter drives, fundraising expenses and
direct candidate support – must be
itemized on Schedule H4 regardless
of amount. Separate segregated funds
and nonconnected committees must
also include allocated disbursements
for public communications that refer
only to a party, while party committees must include disbursements for allocable exempt activity. Line 21(a)(ii)
contains the sum of the nonfederal
share of operating expenses for allocated federal and nonfederal activity.
This value also is brought forward
from the last page of Schedule H4 for
this period. See the instructions for
Schedule H4 for more information.
LINE 21(b). Other Federal Operating
Expenditures. Enter on Line 21(b)
the sum of all other federal operating
expenditures, including those itemized
on Schedule B as well as any unitemized federal operating expenditures.
Separate segregated funds and nonconnected committees must report
disbursements for public communications and voter drives that refer to
federal candidates (but not nonfederal
candidates), or refer to federal candidates and a party (but not nonfederal
candidates), on Line 21(b) or Line 23,
as appropriate. See the instructions
for Schedule B for more information. For each person who receives
payments for other federal operating
expenditures aggregating in excess of
$200 for the calendar year, the committee must provide on Schedule B the
full name and mailing address, date
and amount of the expenditure.

Page 7

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

LINE 21(c). Total Operating Expenditures. Enter the total of the amounts
listed on Lines 21(a)(i), 21(a)(ii) and
21(b).
LINE 22. Transfers to Affiliated/
Other Party Committees. Political
party committees must enter the total amount of transfers to all other
political party committees on Line 22.
All other political committees must
enter the total amount of transfers to
other afﬁliated committees on Line
22. Loans and loan repayments made
to other political party committees or
afﬁliated committees (as appropriate)
must be included on Line 22, not on
Line 26 or 27. These transfers must
be itemized on Schedule B, regardless
of the amount. For each transfer,
provide the full name and mailing address of the recipient committee, date,
amount and state that the purpose of
the disbursement is a “transfer.”
LINE 23. Contributions to Federal
Candidates/Committees and Other
Political Committees. Enter the total
amount of contributions to federal
candidates and other federally-registered political committees on Line 23,
including any in-kind contributions
made. These contributions must be
itemized on Schedule B, regardless of
the amount. DO NOT include transfers reported on Line 22 on this Line.
Do not enter contributions made to
nonfederal candidates or committees
on this Line, but on Line 29. For each
contribution to a federal candidate
or political committee, provide the
full name and address of the political committee or candidate, date and
amount of the contribution and, in
the case of a candidate or authorized
committee, the ofﬁce sought by the
candidate. (Include State and congressional district, where applicable.)
LINE 24. Independent Expenditures.
Enter the total amount of independent
expenditures on Line 24. (See also the
instructions for Schedule E.)
LINE 25. Coordinated Party Expenditures. For political party committees, enter the total amount of
coordinated party expenditures made
by the committee pursuant to 2 U.S.C.
Page 8

§441a(d) on Line 25. Note: Political
committees which are not political
party committees may not make coordinated party expenditures pursuant
to the special allowance at 2 U.S.C.
§441a(d). (See also the instructions
for Schedule F.)

LINE 28(c). Refunds of Contributions to Other Political Committees.
Enter the total amount of contribution refunds to other political committees on Line 28(c). (See instructions
for Line 28(b) for other reporting
requirements.)

LINE 26. Loan Repayments Made.
Enter the total amount of loan repayments made on Line 26. All loan
repayments made must be itemized on
Schedule B, regardless of the amount.
For each person who receives a loan
repayment, provide the full name,
mailing address, date, amount, and
state that the purpose of the disbursement is a “loan repayment.”

LINE 28(d). Total Contribution Refunds. For both Column A and Column B add the totals on Lines 28(a),
28(b) and 28(c) to derive the ﬁgures
for Line 28(d).

LINE 27. Loans Made. Enter the
total amount of loans made (excluding transfers reported on Line 22) on
Line 27. For each loan made by the
committee provide the full name and
mailing address of the person, date
and amount of the loan, and state
that the purpose of the disbursement
is a “loan.”
LINE 28(a). Refunds of Contributions Made to Individuals/Persons
Other Than Political Committees. Enter the total amount of contribution
refunds to individuals/persons other
than political committees on Line
28(a). For each person who receives
a refund of a contribution which
was previously itemized on Schedule
A, the committee must provide on
Schedule B the full name, mailing
address, date, amount and state that
the purpose of the disbursement is a
“contribution refund.”
LINE 28(b). Refunds of Contributions to Political Party Committees.
Enter the total amount of contribution
refunds to political party committees
on Line 28(b). All such refunds must
be itemized on Schedule B, regardless
of the amount. For each contribution
refund, provide the full name, mailing
address, date, amount and state that
the purpose of the disbursement is a
“contribution refund.”

LINE 29. Other Disbursements.
Enter the total amount of other disbursements (including contributions
to nonfederal candidates) on Line 29.
Separate segregated funds and nonconnected committees that use their
federal accounts to pay for any portion
of a public communication or voter
drive that refers to nonfederal candidates (but not federal candidates) or
to nonfederal candidates and a party
(but not federal candidates) must enter
those disbursements on Line 29. See
the instructions for Schedule B for
more information. For each such person who receives any disbursement(s)
not otherwise disclosed where the aggregate amount or value is in excess
of $200, the committee must provide
the full name and address of each
such person, together with the date,
amount and purpose of any such
disbursement.
LINE 30. Federal Election Activity.
Only State, district and local party
committees making disbursements for
federal election activities as deﬁned by
2 U.S.C. §431(20) must enter ﬁgures
on Line 30. See the instructions for
Schedules B, H1, H5 and H6 for more
information. Break out such disbursements as follows:
LINE 30(a). Allocated Federal Election Activity. Enter the total amount
of the federal portion of all such
disbursements for allocable federal
election activity on Line 30(a)(i). This
is equal to the federal share value
from the bottom of the last page of
Schedule H6 for this period. All
such disbursements must be itemized
regardless of amount on Schedule
H6. Enter the total amount of the
Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Levin share of disbursements for allocable federal election activity on Line
30(a)(ii). (See also the instructions for
Schedules H1, H5 and H6. Note that
if the federal election activity is not
allocable under 11 CFR 300.33, or if
the party committee chooses to pay for
allocable federal election activity completely from its federal account, those
payments must instead be reported
on Line 30(b) below and itemized as
required on Schedule B.)
LINE 30(b). Federal Election Activity Paid Entirely With Federal Funds.
Enter the total amount of all disbursements made for public communications that qualify as federal election
activity under 11 CFR 100.24(b)(3)
and the total amount of all disbursements made to pay the salary of any
employee of a State, district or local
party committee who spends over
25% of his or her compensated time
during any month on activities in connection with a federal election. See 11
CFR 100.24(b)(4). Itemize all such
disbursements of $200 or more on
Schedule B for Line 30(b). (See also
the instructions for Schedule B.)
LINE 30(c). Total Federal Election
Activity. For Column A and Column
B, add the totals on Lines 30(a)(i),
30(a)(ii) and 30(b) to derive the ﬁgures
for Line 30(c).
LINE 31. Total Disbursements. For
Column A and Column B add the
totals on Lines 21(c), 22, 23, 24, 25,
26, 27, 28(d), 29 and 30(c) to derive
the ﬁgures for Line 31.
LINE 32. Total Federal Disbursements. Subtract from Line 31 (total
disbursements) the total nonfederal
share of disbursements from Line
21(a)(ii) and the total Levin share of
disbursements from Line 30(a)(ii).
LINES 33-38. Enter the ﬁgures requested and complete the calculations
as noted.

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Page 9

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE A, ITEMIZED
RECEIPTS (FEC FORM 3X)
The Detailed Summary Page is broken down into various categories of
receipts. Use Schedule A to list each
receipt required to be itemized. DO
NOT combine more than one category
of receipts on the same Schedule A.
Instead, use a separate Schedule A for
each category of receipts. The Line
number of the Detailed Summary Page
to which each Schedule A pertains
should be identiﬁed in the upper right
corner of each Schedule. In addition, the committee’s full name must
be entered in the appropriate block.
For each receipt required to be itemized during the reporting period, the
political committee must provide the
identiﬁcation, date and amount of the
receipt, and the aggregate year-to-date
total. If disclosing a contribution from
a federal political committee, the committee should enter the committee’s
FEC identification number. (This
number is readily available from the
Commission’s Web site or its Public
Disclosure Division.)
The term “identification” means,
in the case of an individual, his or her
full name, including: ﬁrst name, middle
name or initial, if available, and last
name; mailing address; occupation;
and the name of his or her employer;
and, in the case of any other person, the
person’s full name and address. Do not
abbreviate committee names.
The occupation and name of employer is only required to be provided
for receipts from individuals. “Occupation” means the principal job title or
position of an individual and whether
or not self-employed. “Employer”
means the organization or person by
whom an individual is employed, and
not the name of his or her supervisor.
The “receipt for” block does not apply to contributions received by political committees. Only use these blocks
for receipts relating to refunds or loan
repayments received from federal candidates. The “aggregate year-to-date”
total must be given for each receipt and
Page 10

must equal the total amount that the
person has given to the committee for
that particular category of receipts for
the calendar year. If a receipt is the
only receipt from a person during the
calendar year, the aggregate year-todate total must still be entered.
Add the “Total This Period” amount
(the last Line on Schedule A) to all
other receipts for that category which
are not itemized and carry it forward to
Column A of the corresponding Line
of the Detailed Summary Page.
If a contribution is received from a
business entity or is drawn on what is
or appears to be a business account,
the political committee must determine
that the contribution is not from a
corporation, government contractor, or
other prohibited source. If the contribution is from a prohibited source, the
committee must refund it within thirty
days of its receipt.
A contribution that appears to be
excessive, either on its face or when aggregated with other contributions from
the same person, may be reattributed,
if either is applicable, or it may be returned or deposited into a committee
depository but not used. If deposited,
the contributor may be asked if a joint
contribution was intended and, if so, to
submit a written reattribution of the
contribution signed by each contributor. Alternatively, contributions may
also be presumptively reattributed to
a joint contributor whose name also
appears imprinted on the contribution check if the reattribution will not
cause the contributor to exceed any
contribution limits. If the committee
presumptively reattributes the excessive contribution, the committee must
notify the contributor of its action,
and offer the opportunity to request a
refund, within sixty days of its receipt
of the original contribution. Written
reattributions are to be reported as
memo entries on the report covering
the period in which the committee
receives the reattributions. Indicate
how the contribution(s) was reported
initially, followed by the reattributed
entry(ies). Presumptive reattributions
must also be noted as such. See 11
CFR 110.1(k)(3)(ii)(B) for presumptive
reattributions, and 11 CFR 104.8 and

the Campaign Guide for the reporting
of these types of contributions.
Contributions In-Kind. Contributions in-kind (i.e., goods and services
provided to a political committee)
are treated as any other contribution
and must be reported and itemized
under the appropriate category of
receipts. For example, itemize a contribution in-kind from an individual
on Schedule A and report it under the
category for “Contributions From Individuals/Persons Other Than Political
Committees.” Enter the value of each
contribution in-kind in the “Amount
of Each Receipt This Period” column.
The amount or value of the contribution in-kind is the difference between
the usual and normal charge for the
goods or services at the time of the
contribution and the amount charged
the political committee. The “aggregate year-to-date” total must include
the total amount of all contributions
which the person has contributed to the
committee during the calendar year.
The item must be labeled “contribution
in-kind” and include the nature of the
contribution (e.g., consulting, polling,
etc.). Each contribution in-kind must
also be reported in the same manner
as an operating expense on Schedule B
and included in the total for “Operating Expenditures.” (Note: A political
committee that makes a contribution
in-kind only reports it as a disbursement and itemizes the transaction on
Schedule B with a notation “contribution in-kind.” The itemization must
include the purpose of the expenditure
(e.g., consulting, polling, etc.) and the
aggregated year-to-date amount. The
committee receiving the contribution
in-kind must report it as both a receipt
and an expenditure.)
Report contributions of stocks,
bonds, art objects, and other similar
items to be liquidated as follows:
(1) If the item has not been liquidated
at the close of the reporting period, the committee must record
as a memo entry (not as cash) on
Schedule A the item’s fair market
value on the date received, including the name and mailing address
(and when in excess of $200, the
Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

occupation and name of the employer) of the contributor. Enter
the total amount of items to be
liquidated under “Total This Period” on the last Line of Schedule
A. This amount must NOT be
carried forward to the Detailed
Summary Page.
(2) When the item is sold, the committee must report the proceeds and
include them in the appropriate
categories on the Detailed Summary Page. It must also report
the (i) name and mailing address
(and, where in excess of $200, the
occupation and name of employer)
of the purchaser on Schedule A, if
purchased directly from the committee (the purchaser is considered
to have made a contribution to the
committee); and (ii) the identiﬁcation of the original contributor on
Schedule A.
Exempt Legal or Accounting Services. Legal or accounting services
rendered to or on behalf of any political committee are not contributions or
expenditures and are not, therefore,
subject to the contribution limitations
and prohibitions, if the person paying
for the services is the regular employer
of the individual rendering the services
and if the services are solely to ensure
compliance with the Act.
The political committee must itemize as a memo entry on a separate
Schedule A each person who provides
legal or accounting services to the political committee in an aggregate value
or amount in excess of $200 within the
calendar year, together with the date
of receipt and amount or value of the
exempt legal or accounting services,
and state that the receipt is for “exempt
legal or accounting service.” Enter
the total amount of exempt legal or
accounting services on the Line for
“Total This Period” on the bottom of
Schedule A, but do not carry it forward
to any category or Line number on the
Detailed Summary Page.
Earmarked Contributions. For each
earmarked contribution received (regardless of the amount), the political
committee must report on Schedule A
FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

the name and address of the original
contributor, the date of receipt, the
amount of the contribution and, if the
original contributor makes contributions aggregating in excess of $200 to
the political committee during the calendar year, the occupation and name
of employer. If the contribution passes
through the political committee’s account and is forwarded to another political committee or federal candidate,
the conduit committee must disclose
each contribution, regardless of the
amount, on both Schedule A and
Schedule B and include the amount
under the appropriate category of
receipts and disbursements. If the
contribution was passed on in the form
of the contributor’s check, the conduit
must disclose each contribution on a
separate Schedule A attached to the
conduit’s (intermediary) next report.
The amounts of such contributions
are not required to be included in the
totals for the appropriate categories
of receipts and disbursements. If a
political committee is not a conduit,
but is the intended recipient, report
each conduit through which the earmarked contribution passed, including
the name and address of the conduit,
and whether the contribution was
passed on in cash, by the contributor’s
check, or by the conduit’s check. If the
conduit exercises direction and control
over the contribution, the earmarked
contribution must also be attributed
to the contribution limitations of the
conduit.
Checks Returned Due to Insufﬁcient
Funds. If a contributor’s check is returned to the political committee due
to insufﬁcient funds and the receipt of
the check was previously reported, the
political committee must report the
return under the appropriate category
of receipts as a negative entry and net
out the amount of the check from the
total for that category. If the original
receipt of the check was itemized on
Schedule A, the return of the check
must also be itemized as a negative
entry on Schedule A. If the receipt of
the check was never reported, do not
report the return of the check.

Check Refunded to the Committee.
A contribution may be refunded to the
committee in one of two ways:
(1) The original check is returned
uncashed. If the contribution
was reported, report the return
as a negative entry on Schedule
B, and subtract the amount of
the contribution refund from the
disbursement totals on the Line of
the Detailed Summary Page that it
was reported on.
(2) The original check is not returned
and the refund is made by a check
from the recipient of the contribution. Such a transaction should be
reported as a receipt on Schedule
A for the appropriate Line of the
Detailed Summary Page. This
procedure is applicable regardless
of whether the amount refunded is
a full or only a partial refund of the
contribution or whether the contribution was previously reported.
Best Efforts. When the treasurer
of a political committee shows that
best efforts have been used to obtain,
maintain and submit the information
required, the committee shall be considered in compliance with the Act.
With regard to reporting the
identiﬁcation of each person whose
contribution(s) to the committee and
its affiliated committees aggregate
in excess of $200 in a calendar year,
the treasurer will only be deemed to
have exercised best efforts to obtain,
maintain and report the required information if all written solicitations
for contributions include a clear request for the information (i.e., name,
mailing address, occupation, name
of employer) and include an accurate
statement of federal law regarding the
collection and reporting of individual
contributor identiﬁcations. In addition, for each contribution requiring
itemization which lacks contributor
information, the treasurer must,
within 30-Days of receipt of the contribution, make one effort to obtain
the missing information. See 11 CFR
104.7 and the Campaign Guide for
more information.

Page 11

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE B, ITEMIZED
DISBURSEMENTS
(FEC FORM 3X)
The Detailed Summary Page is
broken down into various categories
of disbursements. Use Schedule B to
list each disbursement required to be
itemized. DO NOT combine more
than one category of disbursements
on the same Schedule B. Instead, use
a separate Schedule B for each category
of disbursements. The Line number
of the Detailed Summary Page to
which each Schedule B pertains must
be identiﬁed in the upper right corner
of each Schedule. In addition, the
committee’s full name must be entered
in the appropriate block. After itemizing the required disbursements for each
separate line number, add the “Total
This Period” amount (the last line on
Schedule B for that Line number) to all
other disbursements for that category
which are not itemized and carry the
total forward to Column A of the
corresponding Line of the Detailed
Summary Page.
Required Information. For each
disbursement required to be itemized
during the reporting period, the political committee must provide the full
name, mailing address, date, amount,
and purpose of the disbursement.
Purpose of Disbursement. The term
“purpose” means a brief statement or
description of why the disbursement
was made. Examples of adequate descriptions include the following: dinner
expenses, media, salary, polling, travel,
party fees, phone banks, travel expenses, travel expense reimbursement, and
catering costs. However, statements or
descriptions such as “advance,” “election day expenses,” “other expenses,”
“expense reimbursement,” “miscellaneous,” “outside services,” “get-out-thevote,” and “voter registration,” would
not meet the requirement for reporting
the purpose of an expenditure. If the
disbursement is a “loan repayment,”
“contribution refund,” or other similar
category of disbursement (other than
an operating expenditure), the name
Page 12

of the category of disbursement (i.e.,
“loan repayment,” etc.) is sufﬁcient to
meet the requirement for reporting the
purpose of an expenditure.
Along with reporting the purpose
of the expenditure as required above,
the committee should also broadly
characterize disbursements by providing the code for each category of
disbursement. Examples of the types
of disbursements that fall within each
of the broad categories are listed below.
Use only one code for each itemized
disbursement. In cases where the disbursement was for several purposes, the
political committee should assign one
code according to the primary purpose
of the disbursement. Note that some
of the category titles are not acceptable
as the “purpose” of the disbursement
and that the categories are not intended
to replace or to serve as a substitute for
the “purpose of disbursement.”
001 Administrative/Salary/Overhead
Expenses (e.g., rent, staff salaries,
postage, ofﬁce supplies, equipment,
furniture, ballot access fees, petition drives, party fees and legal and
accounting expenses)
002 Travel Expenses—including travel
reimbursement expenses (e.g.,
costs of commercial carrier tickets;
reimbursements for use of private
vehicles; advance payments for
use of corporate aircraft; lodging
and meal expenses incurred during
travel)
003 Solicitation and Fundraising
Expenses (e.g., costs for direct
mail solicitations and fundraising
events including printing, mailing
lists, consultant fees, call lists, invitations, catering costs and room
rental)
004 Advertising Expenses—including
general public political advertising
(e.g., purchases of radio/television
broadcast/cable time, print advertisements and related production
costs)
005 Polling Expenses
006 Campaign Materials (e.g., buttons,
bumper stickers, brochures, mass
mailings, pens, posters and balloons)
007 Campaign Event Expenses (e.g.,
costs associated with candidate ap-

pearances, campaign rallies, town
meetings, phone banks, including
catering costs, door to door getout-the-vote efforts and driving
voters to the polls)
008 Transfers (e.g., to other afﬁliated/
party committees)
009 Loans (e.g., loans made or repayments of loans received)
010 Refunds of Contributions (e.g.,
contribution refunds to individuals/persons, political party committees or other political committees)
011 Political Contributions (e.g., contributions to other federal committees and candidates, and donations
to nonfederal candidates and committees)
012 Donations (e.g., donations to
charitable or civic organizations)
Contributions to Federal Candidates. For disbursements that are
contributions to federal candidates,
or authorized committees, list, in the
appropriate boxes, the name of the
candidate and ofﬁce sought (including
State and congressional district, where
applicable).
For each contribution to a federal
candidate or authorized committee,
indicate in the election check-off box
the election for which the contribution
was made. Contributions to a candidate or authorized committee that are
not designated by the contributor for
a specific election must be counted
toward the contributor’s limitation for
the next election after the contribution is made. Contributions may be
made for a past election only to the
extent that the recipient has net debts
outstanding from that particular election. In the event the contribution
was made for an election prior to the
current election cycle, the “Other” box
must be checked and the type of election speciﬁed (e.g., “General 2004,”
“Primary 2004”). The election checkoff boxes provided for each itemized
entry on Schedule B should not be used
when itemizing operating expenditures.
For in-kind contributions, including
coordinated public communications,
note “in-kind.”
Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Contributions In-Kind Received
Contributions in-kind received by
the committee which are itemized on
Schedule A must also be itemized as
an operating expenditure on Schedule
B. In addition, in the “Purpose of
Disbursement” box include the notation “Contribution In-Kind,” and
the nature of the expenditure (e.g.,
consulting, polling, etc.).
Disbursements for Federal
Election Activities That Are
Made Entirely With Federal
Funds (State, District and Local
Party Committees Only)
Certain federal election activities
under 2 U.S.C. §431(20)(A)(iii) and
(iv) conducted by State, district or
local party committees must be paid
for with federal funds only. These
activities are:
• Disbursements for public communications that refer to a clearly
identiﬁed candidate for federal ofﬁce
and that promote, support, attack
or oppose any candidate for federal
ofﬁce. Identify the candidate supported or opposed when itemizing
such disbursements.
• Disbursements for the salary of any
employee for services provided during any month when that individual
spends more than 25 percent of his or
her compensated time on activities in
connection with a federal election.
Disbursements for other federal
election activities may be allocated between federal funds and Levin funds.
2 U.S.C. §431(20)(A)(i) and (ii). State,
district or local party committees must
itemize such allocated disbursements
for federal election activity on Schedules H5 and H6; for more information,
see the instructions for Schedule H1,
H5 and H6. However, a State, district
or local political party committee
may choose to pay for such allocable
federal election activities with 100%
federal funds (that is, they may choose
not to allocate the disbursements even
though they could do so).

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Use Schedule B to report disbursements of federal funds for federal
election activities made entirely with
federal funds. This includes disbursements for federal election activities
that may not be allocated, and those
that may be allocated, but which are
not in fact allocated (i.e., that are made
with 100% federal funds). Itemize
such disbursements of $200 or more
on Schedule B for Line 30(b). When
itemizing disbursements for public
communications, identify the candidate supported or opposed.
Disbursements for Public
Communications and Voter
Drives (Separate Segregated
Funds and Nonconnected
Committees Only)
Public Communication/Voter Drive
– Federal. A separate segregated fund
or nonconnected committee that disburses funds for a public communication or a voter drive that refers only
to a federal candidate, or to both a
political party and a federal candidate
(but not a nonfederal candidate) must
pay for such disbursements solely out
of its federal account. Voter drives
are subject to this requirement only
if there is a reference to a clearly
identiﬁed federal candidate in printed
materials, scripted messages or written
instructions. Itemize such disbursements as “Other Federal Operating
Expenditures” on Schedule B for Line
21b. The committee may identify the
federal candidate referred to in the
communication or voter drive in the
space provided. (Exceptions: (1) If
the communication or voter drive has
been coordinated with a candidate or
political party, the committee must
report the disbursement as an in-kind
contribution on Schedule B for Line
23 regardless of amount. See “Contributions to Federal Candidates”
above for more information. (2) If
the communication would otherwise
satisfy the deﬁnition of an “electioneering communication” under 11 CFR
100.29(a), the committee must report
it as an expenditure on Line 21b or 23,
and itemize it on a Schedule B for that
Line, as appropriate.)

Public Communications/Voter
Drives – Nonfederal. A separate
segregated fund or nonconnected
committee that pays for a public communication or a voter drive that refers
only to a nonfederal candidate, or to
both a political party and a nonfederal
candidate (but not a federal candidate)
may pay for such a disbursement solely
out of its nonfederal account. Voter
drives are subject to this requirement
only if there is a reference to a clearly
identified nonfederal candidate in
printed materials, scripted messages
or written instructions. If it chooses
to use its federal account to pay for a
portion of the expense, categorize the
disbursement by the federal account as
an “other disbursement” on Line 29
and itemize on a Schedule B for Line
29 if necessary.
Public Communications/Voter
Drives Referencing Party Only or
Both Federal/Nonfederal Candidates.
If a committee chooses to allocate
disbursements for public communications or voter drives that refer to both
federal and nonfederal candidates,
regardless of any reference to a political party, or that refer to a party
only, the federal/nonfederal disbursements must be reported accordingly
as allocated expenditures. For more
information, see the instructions for
Schedules H1, H2 and H4. Alternatively, if the committee pays for such
expenditures solely with federal funds,
or if it does not have a nonfederal
account, itemize the disbursements
according to the instructions for itemizing “Public Communication/Voter
Drive – Federal,” above.

Page 13

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C, LOANS
(FEC FORM 3X)
A loan is a contribution at the
time it is made and is a contribution
to the extent it remains unpaid. A
LOAN WHICH EXCEEDS THE
CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS
IS UNLAWFUL WHETHER OR
NOT IT IS REPAID. The aggregate
amount loaned to a candidate or committee by another individual or political committee, when added to other
contributions from that individual or
political committee to that candidate
or committee, shall not exceed the
contribution limitations. A loan, to
the extent it is repaid, is no longer a
contribution. All loans to a political
committee (regardless of amount)
must be disclosed on the ﬁrst report
ﬁled with the Commission after the
date the loan is made.
When ﬁlling out Schedule C, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page.
DO NOT combine loans owed TO
the committee with those owed BY
the committee on the same Schedule
C. Instead, use a separate Schedule C.
Each loan should be reported separately until extinguished.
Loans Owed By the Committee
When a loan is received by the
committee, it must be itemized on
Schedule A and must also be disclosed
on Schedule C (see also instructions
for Schedule A for itemizing loans
received by the committee). For each
loan owed BY the reporting committee at the close of the reporting period,
the committee must report certain
basic information on Schedule C in
the appropriate boxes: (1) full name,
mailing address and zip code of the
creditor; (2) if the committee is an
authorized committee, the election to
which the loan applies (i.e., primary,
general or other); (3) the original
amount of the loan; (4) the cumulative
payment to date on the loan; and (5)
the outstanding balance at the close of

Page 14

the reporting period (i.e., the remaining unpaid portion of the loan).
Certain additional information
must be entered on Schedule C in the
box entitled TERMS: (1) if an intermediary is reported as the source of
the loan, the original source of the
loan (which must be disclosed in the
ﬁrst box for endorsers and guarantors
with a notation that the person identiﬁed is the original source); (2) the date
the obligation was incurred; (3) the
date the loan is due or the amortization schedule (if there is no due date or
amortization schedule, enter “None”
on the appropriate Line); (4) the actual
rate of interest charged on each loan
(if the loan does not bear an interest
rate, enter “None” on the appropriate
Line); and (5) check the box if the loan
has been secured.
In instances where the loan has
endorsers or guarantors, the following information must be supplied: (1)
the identiﬁcation of each endorser or
guarantor, and (2) the amount of the
endorsement or guarantee outstanding at the close of the reporting period.
The term “identiﬁcation” means (a) in
the case of an individual, his or her full
name, mailing address, occupation,
and name of employer; and (b) in the
case of any other person, the person’s
full name and address.
Loans owed BY the committee
must continue to be reported on each
subsequent report until repaid. When
a payment is made to reduce or extinguish the amount of a loan owed BY
the committee, the payment must be
itemized on Schedule B, reported on
the appropriate Line of the Detailed
Summary Page, and included in the
“Cumulative Payment to Date” column on Schedule C. If any extension
for repayment is granted, this should
be reported on the ﬁrst report after the
extension is made.
If a loan is settled for less than the
reported amount, the reporting committee must include a statement as to
the circumstances and conditions under which the debt or obligation was
extinguished and the amount paid. A
loan owed BY a political committee
which is forgiven or settled for less
than the amount owed is a contribu-

tion. The total amount of loans owed
BY the committee at the close of the
reporting period must be entered on
the Line for “Total This Period” on
the bottom of the last page and transferred to Line 3 of the last page of
Schedule D. If no debts or obligations
are reported on Schedule D, carry the
outstanding balance forward to the
Summary Page.
Loans Owed To the Committee
When a loan is made by the committee, it must be itemized on Schedule B
and must also be disclosed on Schedule
C (see also instructions for Schedule B
for itemizing loans made by the committee). For each loan owed TO the
committee at the close of the reporting period, the committee must report
certain basic information on Schedule
C in the appropriate boxes: (1) the full
name, mailing address and zip code of
each debtor; (2) if the loan was made
by a political committee other than an
authorized committee and was made to
a federal candidate or authorized committee, the election to which the loan
applies (i.e., primary, general or other);
(3) the original amount of the loan; (4)
the cumulative payment to date on the
loan; and (5) the outstanding balance at
the close of the reporting period (i.e., the
remaining unpaid portion of the loan).
Certain additional information must
be entered on Schedule C in the box
entitled TERMS: (1) the date the obligation was incurred; (2) the date the loan
is due or the amortization schedule (if
there is no due date or amortization
schedule, enter “None” on the appropriate Line; (3) the actual rate of interest
charged on the loan (if the loan does not
bear an interest rate, enter “None” on
the appropriate Line); and (4) check the
box if the loan has been secured. Loans
owed TO the committee must continue
to be reported on each subsequent report
until repaid. When a payment is received
to reduce or extinguish a loan owed TO
the committee, the payment must be
itemized on Schedule A, reported on
the appropriate Line of the Detailed
Summary Page, and included in the
“Cumulative Payment to Date” column

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

on Schedule C. If any extension of repayment is granted or made, this should
be reported on the ﬁrst report after the
extension is made.
The total amount of loans owed TO
the committee at the close of the reporting period must be entered on the Line
for “Total This Period” on the bottom of
the last page and transferred to Line 3 of
the last page of Schedule D. If no debts
or obligations are reported on Schedule
D, carry the outstanding balance forward to the Summary Page.
Miscellaneous
Loans by Financial Institutions.
A loan of money by a State bank, a
federally chartered depository institution (including a national bank) or a
depository institution whose deposits
and accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
or the National Credit Union Administration is not a contribution by the
lending institution if the loan is made
in accordance with applicable banking
laws and regulations and is made in
the ordinary course of business. A
loan will be deemed to be made in
the ordinary course of business if it:
bears the usual and customary interest rate of the lending institution for
the category of loan involved; is made
on a basis that assures repayment; is
evidenced by a written instrument;
and is subject to a due date or an
amortization schedule.
Loans by Political Committees. If a
political committee makes a loan TO
any person, the loan shall be subject
to the contribution limitations. Repayment to the political committee
of the principal amount of the loan
is not a contribution by the debtor to
the lender committee. The repayment
must be made with funds which are
permissible under the Act. The payment of interest to the committee by
the debtor is a contribution only to the
extent that the interest paid exceeds a
commercially reasonable rate prevail-

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

ing at the time the loan is made. All
payments of interest must be made
from funds which are permissible
under the Act.
Endorsers and Guarantors. A loan
is a contribution by each endorser
or guarantor. Each endorser or
guarantor shall be deemed to have
contributed that portion of the total
amount of the loan for which he or
she agreed to be liable in a written
agreement. Any reduction in the unpaid balance of the loan shall reduce
proportionately the amount endorsed
or guaranteed by each endorser or
guarantor in such written agreement.
In the event that such agreement does
not stipulate the portion of the loan
for which each endorser or guarantor
is liable, the loan shall be considered a
loan by each endorser or guarantor in
the same proportion to the unpaid balance that each endorser or guarantor
bears to the total number of endorsers
or guarantors.
Loan Repayments. Each committee must disclose all loan payments
received or made by the committee.
When a loan repayment is received by
a committee, the repayment must be
itemized on Schedule A and included
in the “Cumulative Payment to Date”
column on Schedule C. When a loan
repayment is made by a committee, the
repayment must be itemized on Schedule B and included in the “Cumulative
Payment to Date” column on Schedule
C. Disclose the total amount of loan
repayments received and the total
amount of loan repayments made on
the appropriate Lines of the Detailed
Summary Page.

Page 15

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C-1, LOANS AND
LINES OF CREDIT FROM
LENDING INSTITUTIONS
(FEC FORM 3X)

Background: FEC Regulations
on Loans from Lending
Institutions
Schedule C-1 seeks information
on loans—including lines of credit—
from lending institutions such as state
or federally chartered banks, federally
insured savings and loan associations
or federally insured credit unions. The
purpose of Schedule C-1 is to verify
that a loan or line of credit does not result in a prohibited contribution from
the lending institution, a violation of
the federal campaign ﬁnance law.
Under FEC regulations at 11 CFR
100.82 and 100.142, a loan “made in
accordance with applicable banking
laws” and “in the ordinary course of
business” is not considered a contribution if certain conditions are met.
One of these conditions is that the
loan “is made on a basis which assures
repayment.” Schedule C-1 documents
whether or not the loan complies with
these requirements.
Who Must File Schedule C-1
A political committee that obtains
a loan or line of credit from a bank
or other lending institution must ﬁle
Schedule C-1.
When to File Schedule C-1
A Schedule C-1 must be ﬁled for
each loan and each line of credit obtained from a lending institution. 11
CFR 104.3(d)(1).
Loans. A committee must ﬁle a
Schedule C-1 with its next report when
it ﬁrst obtains a loan and in succeeding
reporting periods each time the terms
of the loan are restructured. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1) and (3). (A restructured
loan is considered a new loan.)

Page 16

Lines of Credit. A committee must
ﬁle a Schedule C-1 with its next report
when a line of credit is established and
in succeeding reporting periods each
time any draws are made on the line
of credit and each time the line of
credit is restructured to change the
repayment terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)
and (3).
Reporting Loans and Lines of
Credit on Schedules A and C
Schedule A. When a committee
obtains a loan, the committee must
itemize the receipt on a Schedule A
for the appropriate Line number.
However, a line of credit is itemized on
Schedule A only when the committee
obtains funds by making a draw on
the credit.
Schedule C. As with all loans, loans
from lending institutions (including
lines of credit) must be continuously
disclosed on Schedule C, starting with
the ﬁrst report due after the committee
obtains the loan and continuing with
each report thereafter until the loan
is repaid.
Line-by-Line Instructions
Schedule C Cross-Reference. Enter
the Schedule C page number where
information on the loan or line of
credit appears.
Name of Committee Obtaining
Loan. Enter the full name of the
reporting committee.
Identiﬁcation Number. Enter the
reporting committee’s FEC identiﬁcation number. If the committee
is newly registered and has not yet
obtained a number, enter “not yet
assigned.”
Name/Address of Lender. Enter
the full name, address and zip code of
the lending institution.

Loan Amount. Enter the amount
of the loan or line of credit. If reporting a restructured loan or line of
credit, enter the amount under the
new terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i)
and (3).
Interest Rate. Enter the annual
percentage rate (APR) of interest on
the loan or each draw on the line of
credit. If reporting a restructured
loan or line of credit, enter the interest rate under the new terms. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(ii) and (3).
Date Incurred or Established. Enter the date the committee incurred
the debt by signing the loan agreement
(the original agreement or a restructured agreement, as appropriate). 11
CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i) and (3).
Due Date. Enter the date on which
full repayment of the loan or line of
credit is due (under the original agreement or a restructured agreement, as
appropriate). 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii)
and (3).
A. Restructured Loans. Check yes
if the loan or line of credit has been
restructured to change the terms; enter
the date on which the original loan or
line of credit was incurred. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(3).
B. Draws on Line of Credit. If
reporting a draw on a line of credit,
enter the amount of the draw and
the outstanding balance owed on
the line of credit (cumulative draws
less any repayments made). 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(ii).
C. Secondary Sources of Repayment. Check yes if the loan or line
of credit was endorsed or guaranteed by secondary parties. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(iii). Information on
endorsers and guarantors must be
disclosed on Schedule C. (Note that
guarantees and endorsements of loans
are considered contributions; see
Schedule C instructions.)

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

D. Traditional Collateral. Check
yes if the loan or line of credit was
obtained using traditional sources of
collateral, and list the speciﬁc assets
that were pledged. Enter the total fair
market value of the collateral as of the
date of the loan agreement. Indicate
whether the lender has a perfected
security interest in the collateral. 11
CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii). (Note that a
perfected security interest is a requirement under FEC regulations. 11 CFR
100.82(e)(1)(i) and 100.142(e)(1)(i)).
E. Future Receipts as Collateral.
Check yes if the loan or line of credit
was obtained using future receipts as
collateral; list the types of receipts that
were pledged; and enter their estimated
amount. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii). Enter the date the separate account was
established for the deposit of pledged
receipts. (A depository account is
required under 11 CFR 100.82(e)(2)
and 100.142(e)(2).) Provide the full
name and address of the depository
institution where the account was
established.
F. Other Means of Obtaining Loan.
Complete this section if “no” was
checked in sections C, D, and E or if
the amount cosigned and/or pledged
for the loan or line of credit is less than
the loan amount. If so, state the basis
upon which the loan was made and the
basis on which it assures repayment.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iv).
G. Treasurer’s Signature and Date.
The committee treasurer (or properly
designated assistant treasurer) must
sign and date the form; the signer’s
name should be printed or typed beside the signature.
H. Copy of Loan Agreement. Attach a copy of the signed agreement.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(2).
I. Lender Certiﬁcation. An authorized representative of the lending
institution must sign and date the form
to certify that the lender has complied
with items I through III. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(v). The representative’s
name should be printed or typed beside his or her signature. The representative’s title must also be entered.

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Page 17

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE D, DEBTS AND
OBLIGATIONS (FEC FORM
3X)
When ﬁlling out Schedule D, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page.
DO NOT combine debts and obligations owed to the committee with
those owed by the committee on the
same Schedule D. Instead, use a separate Schedule D.
Debts and Obligations Owed
BY the Committee (Other Than
Loans)
For debts and obligations owed BY
the reporting committee at the close
of the reporting period and which
are required to be disclosed, the committee must report the full name and
mailing address of each creditor, the
amount of the debt outstanding at the
beginning of the period, the amount
of the debt or obligation incurred this
period (including any ﬁnance charges),
the payment(s) this period to retire the
debt or obligation, the outstanding
balance at the close of the reporting
period and the nature or purpose of
the debt and obligation. The terms
“nature” or “purpose” mean a brief
statement or description of why the
debt or obligation was incurred (e.g.,
media, salary, polling, supplies, mailing).
A written contract (including a
media contract), promise, or agreement to make an expenditure which
has not been paid for by the committee is an expenditure as of the date
the contract, promise or obligation
is made and is subject to the reporting requirements. Accounts payable
and written contracts, promises, or
agreements to make expenditures, in
amounts of $500 or less, need not be
disclosed until outstanding for sixty
days or more.
Debts and obligations owed BY
the committee must continue to be
reported on each subsequent report
until extinguished or settled in a manner permitted by Federal Election
Page 18

Commission regulations (see 11 CFR
Part 116 for settlement of corporate
debts). When a payment is made to
reduce or extinguish an obligation
owed BY the committee, the payment must be itemized on Schedule
B, reported on the appropriate line
of the Detailed Summary Page, and
included in the “Payment This Period” column on Schedule D. If a
debt or obligation is settled for less
than the reported amount or value,
the reporting committee must include
a statement as to the circumstances
and conditions under which the debt
or obligation was extinguished and
the amount paid. A debt owed BY a
political committee which is forgiven
or settled for less than the amount
owed is a contribution unless the debt
is forgiven or settled in accordance
with 11 CFR Part 116. The extension
of credit by any person for a length
of time beyond normal business or
trade practice is a contribution, unless
the creditor has made a commercially
reasonable attempt to collect the debt.
The total amount of debts and obligations owed BY the committee during
the reporting period must be entered
at the bottom of the last page under
“Total This Period” and added to the
total loans owed BY the committee
from Schedule C. The total amount
of debts and obligations owed BY
the committee (including loans) must
be carried forward to the Summary
Page.

debt or obligation was incurred (e.g.,
media, salary, polling, supplies, mailing). Written contracts or agreements
(such as signed pledge cards), or oral
promises to make contributions are
not required to be reported.
Debts and obligations owed TO
the committee must continue to be
reported on each subsequent report
until extinguished. When a payment
is received to reduce or extinguish a
debt or obligation owed TO the committee, the payment must be itemized
on Schedule A, reported on the appropriate line of the Detailed Summary
Page, and included in the “Payment
This Period” column on Schedule D.
The total amount of debts and obligations owed TO the committee during
the reporting period must be entered
at the bottom of the last page under
“Total This Period” and added to the
total loans owed TO the committee
from Schedule C. The total amount
of debts and obligations owed TO
the committee (including loans) must
be carried forward to the Summary
Page.

Debts and Obligations Owed
TO the Committee (Other Than
Loans)
For each debt and obligation owed
TO the committee at the close of the
reporting period, the committee must
report: the full name and mailing address of each debtor, the amount of
the debt outstanding at the beginning
of the period, the amount of the debt
or obligation incurred this period, the
payment(s) this period to retire the
debt or obligation, the outstanding
balance at the close of the reporting
period and the nature or purpose of
the debt or obligation. The terms
“nature” or “purpose” mean a brief
statement or description of why the
Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE E, ITEMIZED
INDEPENDENT
EXPENDITURES (FEC FORM
3X)
General
Deﬁnition
The term “independent expenditure” means: “an expenditure by a
person for a communication expressly
advocating the election or defeat of a
clearly identiﬁed candidate that is not
made in cooperation, consultation or
concert with, or at the request or suggestion of, a candidate, a candidate’s
authorized committee or their agents,
or a political party committee or its
agents.
When to File
Any political committee that makes
independent expenditures must report such independent expenditures
on Schedule E for the applicable
reporting period. Special additional
reporting procedures apply to expenditures aggregating $1,000 or more
and made within 20 days before an
election; these are described below under “24-hour Reports”. In addition,
special reporting procedures apply to
expenditures aggregating $10,000 or
more and are described below under
“48-hour Reports.”
48-hour Reports
Any political committee that makes
or contracts to make independent
expenditures regarding a particular
election (e.g., a particular party’s Presidential nomination or a particular
Senate general election) aggregating
$10,000 or more during the calendar
year up to and including the 20th day
before an election must ensure that
the Commission receives a report of
these expenditures no later than 11:59
p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight Time
of the second day following the date
on which the independent expenditure

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

meeting the $10,000 threshold is publicly distributed or otherwise publicly
disseminated. See Explanation and
Justification for 11 CFR 104.4(f).
The committee must continue to ﬁle
additional 48-hour reports each time
subsequent independent expenditures
reach the $10,000 threshold with
respect to the same election to which
the ﬁrst report related. For purposes
of determining whether 48-hour reports must be ﬁled, aggregations of
independent expenditures must be
calculated as of the ﬁrst date on which
a communication that constitutes an
independent expenditure is publicly
distributed or otherwise publicly disseminated. See 11 CFR 104.4(f).
The report must include all of the
information required on Schedule E
and be ﬁled with the Federal Election
Commission. Committees that are
not electronic ﬁlers may ﬁle 48-hour
reports by fax or electronic mail. All
filers may submit 48-hour reports
online at www.fec.gov.
24-hour Reports
The committee must ﬁle a report
of any independent expenditures aggregating $1,000 or more made after
the 20th day, but more than 24 hours
before an election, before 12:01 A.M.
of the day of the election. The committee must ensure that the Commission receives the report no later than
11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight
Time of the day following the date on
which the $1,000 threshold is reached
during the ﬁnal 20 days before the
election. For purposes of determining whether 24-hour reports must be
filed, aggregations of independent
expenditures must be calculated as of
the ﬁrst date on which a communication that constitutes an independent
expenditure is publicly distributed or
otherwise publicly disseminated. See
Explanation and Justiﬁcation for 11
CFR 104.4(f). The report must include all of the information required
on Schedule E and be ﬁled with the
Federal Election Commission. The
committee must ﬁle a new 24-hour
report each time it makes subsequent
independent expenditures relating to
the same election and aggregating

$1,000 or more. Committees that are
not electronic ﬁlers may ﬁle 24-hour
reports by fax or electronic mail. All
filers may submit 24-hour reports
online at www.fec.gov.
Line By Line Instructions
For Schedule E, enter the full name
of the committee and the FEC Identiﬁcation Number in the appropriate
boxes at the top of the page. Check
the box “48-hour Report” or “24-hour
Report” if applicable.
For each person who receives a
payment or disbursement during the
calendar year aggregating in excess of
$200 in connection with an independent expenditure, provide on Schedule
E the full name, mailing address and
zip code of the payee receiving any
disbursement, the date and amount of
any independent expenditure aggregating in excess of $200, and the purpose
of the independent expenditure (e.g.,
radio, television, newspaper). Also
indicate, in the election check-off box,
the election for which the independent
expenditure was made.
In situations where the committee incurs a reportable obligation for
an independent expenditure in one
reporting period, and the communication will be publicly disseminated in
a future reporting period, report the
obligation on Schedule D (Debts and
Obligations) in the ﬁrst period and, in
the future reporting period, report the
independent expenditure on Schedule
E referencing the debt on Schedule D
(using a memo entry if actual payment has not been made). Continue
to report the debt on Schedule D and
itemize payments on it using Schedule
E until the debt is extinguished.
In situations where the committee
pays in advance for an independent expenditure in one reporting period and
the communication will be publicly
disseminated in a future reporting period, report the payment on Schedule
B as an operating expenditure. When,
in a subsequent reporting period, the
communication is publicly disseminated, itemize the independent expenditure and its date of dissemination on

Page 19

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Schedule E, and itemize the previous
expenditure again as a negative entry
on Schedule B so that total disbursements are not inﬂated.
Along with reporting the purpose
of the expenditure as required above,
the committee should also broadly
characterize disbursements by providing the code for each category of disbursement. Examples of the types of
disbursements that fall within each of
the broad categories are listed below.
Use only one code for each itemized
disbursement. In cases where the disbursement was for several purposes,
assign one of the following codes
according to the primary purpose of
the disbursement. Note that some of
the category titles are not acceptable
as the “purpose” of the disbursement
and that the categories are not intended to replace or to serve as a substitute
for the “purpose of disbursement.”
004 Advertising Expenses -including general public political advertising
(e.g., purchases of radio/television
broadcast/cable time, print advertisements and related production costs)
In addition, provide the name of
the candidate, the ofﬁce sought by
the candidate (including State and
Congressional District, where applicable), and whether the independent
expenditure was in support of, or in
opposition to, the candidate. Also,
list the total amount expended in the
aggregate during the calendar year, per
election, per ofﬁce sought. A subtotal
of itemized expenditures must be disclosed on Line (a) of the last Schedule
E ﬁled. A subtotal of independent
expenditures not required to be itemized must also be disclosed on Line (b)
of the last Schedule E ﬁled.
The total of all independent expenditures (Line (c)) is carried forward to
the appropriate Line of the Detailed
Summary Page.

Page 20

Certiﬁcation
The treasurer of the committee
must sign Schedule E (for electronically-ﬁled reports, type the name of
the treasurer) and certify under penalty of perjury that the expenditure
was not in fact made in cooperation,
consultation or concert with, or at
the request or suggestion of, any
candidate or authorized committee
or agent thereof. If the committee
is not a political party committee, it
must also certify that the expenditure
was not, in fact, made in cooperation,
consultation or concert with, or at the
request or suggestion of a political
party committee or its agents.
Note: Any other person or entity
(other than a political committee) that
makes an independent expenditure
must ﬁle on FEC FORM 5, or, if not
required to ﬁle electronically, may ﬁle
by Form 5 or letter.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE F, ITEMIZED
COORDINATED PARTY
EXPENDITURES MADE BY
POLITICAL PARTIES
(FEC FORM 3X)
Deﬁnition and Limitations
The Federal Election Campaign Act
provides political party committees
with special spending limits on behalf
of their candidates in the general election (2 U.S.C. §441a(d)). These special
spending limits do not apply in primary
elections, are not contributions to the
candidate and are not contributions
in-kind reported on Schedule B. These
spending limits are separate from
expenditures made by the candidate’s
authorized committee(s). Expenditures made under 2 U.S.C. §441a(d) are
reported by the political party committee or designated agent and not by the
candidate or the candidate’s authorized
committee(s) on whose behalf the expenditure was made.
National party political committees
are subject to separate limits for Presidential, Senate and House general elections. State party political committees
are subject to separate limits for Senate
and House general elections, but may
not make any separate expenditures in
the Presidential general election, unless
designated by the national committee
of the political party. Within a State,
committees subordinate to a State
party political committee (county, city,
local, etc.) are included within the State
party political committee limits.
The formulas for the party spending
limits are as follows:
President:

$0.02 times the national
Voting Age Population,
adjusted to reflect the
latest cost-of-living increase.

Senate:

The greater of: (a) $0.02
times the state Voting

Age Population, adjusted
to reﬂect the latest costof-living increase; or (b)
$20,000, adjusted to reﬂect the latest cost-of-living increase.
*House:

$10,000 adjusted to reﬂect
the latest cost-of-living
increase.

Who Must File
Any political party committee or
designated agent that makes coordinated party expenditures must itemize
each expenditure on Schedule F. For
each coordinated party expenditure;
provide the full name and mailing address of the payee, date and amount
of the expenditure, the purpose of the
expenditure (e.g., polling, campaign
consulting, media preparation, etc.)
and the name of the ofﬁce sought by
(including State and Congressional
district, when applicable) the candidate
on whose behalf the expenditure was
made. If the limits for an expenditure
are modiﬁed as described below under “24-hour Notices” (pursuant to 2
U.S.C. §441a(i)(C)(iii)(III) on behalf
of a Senate candidate or to 2 U.S.C.
§441a-1(a)(1)(C) on behalf of a House
candidate) check the box in each block
disclosing an expenditure to indicate
this fact.
Along with reporting the purpose
of the expenditure as required above,
the committee should also broadly
characterize disbursements by providing the code for each category of
disbursement. Examples of the types
of disbursements that fall within each
of the broad categories are listed below.
Use only one code for each itemized
disbursement. In cases where the disbursement was for several purposes, the
political committee should assign one
code according to the primary purpose
of the disbursement. Note that some
of the category titles are not acceptable
as the “purpose” of the disbursement
and that the categories are not intended
to replace or to serve as a substitute for
the “purpose of disbursement.”

001 Administrative/Salary/Overhead
Expenses (e.g., rent, staff salaries,
postage, ofﬁce supplies, equipment,
furniture, ballot access fees, petition drives, party fees and legal and
accounting expenses)
002 Travel Expenses—including travel
reimbursement expenses (e.g.,
costs of commercial carrier tickets;
reimbursements for use of private
vehicles; advance payments for
use of corporate aircraft; lodging
and meal expenses incurred during
travel)
003 Solicitation and Fundraising
Expenses (e.g., costs for direct
mail solicitations and fundraising
events including printing, mailing
lists, consultant fees, call lists, invitations, catering costs and room
rental)
004 Advertising Expenses—including
general public political advertising
(e.g., purchases of radio/television
broadcast/cable time, print advertisements and related production
costs)
005 Polling Expenses
006 Campaign Materials (e.g., buttons,
bumper stickers, brochures, mass
mailings, pens, posters and balloons)
007 Campaign Event Expenses (e.g.,
costs associated with candidate appearances, campaign rallies, town
meetings, phone banks, including
catering costs, door to door getout-the-vote efforts and driving
voters to the polls)
011 Political Contributions (e.g., contributions to other federal committees and candidates, and donations
to non-federal candidates and
committees)
In addition, the committee must
provide the amount of coordinated
expenditures made on behalf of each
candidate for the general election.
Expenditures made on behalf of more
than one candidate should be attributed to each candidate in proportion
to, and should be reported to reﬂect,
the beneﬁt reasonably expected to be
derived.

*In the case of a candidate for election to the House of Representatives from a State which is entitled to only one
Representative, the Senate party spending limits are applicable.
FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Page 21

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

24-hour Notices
If a candidate qualiﬁes for modiﬁed coordinated expenditure limits
under 11 CFR 400.40 or 400.41, the
campaign must notify the national and
State political party within 24 hours
using FEC Form 11. Upon receipt of
a candidate’s FEC Form 11, the party
committee, after verifying the information, may make coordinated party expenditures in excess of the limitations
set forth in 11 CFR 109.32. However,
if the committee does make expenditures in excess of the limitations, it
must ﬁle a Schedule F disclosing such
expenditures by facsimile machine (to
202-219-0174) or by electronic mail
(to 2022190174@fec.gov) with the
Federal Election Commission within
24 hours of making such expenditures.
11 CFR 400.30(c)(2). The party committee must also simultaneously send
a copy via facsimile machine or electronic mail to the candidate (or his or
her authorized committee) on whose
behalf the expenditure was made. Fax
numbers and electronic mail addresses
for authorized committees are available from the FEC’s web site at www.
fec.gov.
Note: When ﬁling a 24-hour notice,
check the box at the top of the form
to indicate that the ﬁling is a 24-hour
notice.

separate Schedule F for each agent.
Expenditures made by designated
agents should not be included in the
reporting committee’s totals on the
Detailed Summary Page. The ﬁgure
carried forward to the Detailed Summary Page should be the amount of
coordinated party expenditures made
by the reporting committee.

Designated Agents
The national committee of a political party may make coordinated party
expenditures for candidates through
any designated agent including any
State or subordinate party political
committees.
The State party political committee
may designate as agents any subordinate committee (county, city, local,
etc.). The State party political committee shall be responsible for insuring that the expenditures of the entire
party organization within the State
are within the limitations, including
receiving reports from any subordinate
committee making expenditures, and
ﬁling consolidated reports showing
all expenditures in the State.Committees reporting to the Commission
for designated agents should use a
Page 22

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE H1, METHOD
OF ALLOCATION FOR
ALLOCATED FEDERAL
AND NONFEDERAL
ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES, GENERIC
VOTER DRIVE COSTS,
EXEMPT ACTIVITY COSTS,
ALLOCATED FEDERAL/LEVIN
FUND “FEDERAL ELECTION
ACTIVITY” EXPENSES
AND ALLOCATED PUBLIC
COMMUNICATIONS THAT
REFER TO ANY POLITICAL
PARTY (BUT NOT A
CANDIDATE)
(FEC FORM 3X)

Who Must File Schedule H1
Any State, district and local party
committee, separate segregated fund or
nonconnected committee that chooses
to allocate allocable expenses must report the allocation methods and ratios
used on Schedule H1 and/or H2 as
explained below and in the instructions
for Schedule H2.
When Allocation is Permitted
An unauthorized committee that
is active in both federal and nonfederal elections, and that has established
separate federal and nonfederal accounts, may either make all payments
for allocable administrative and generic
voter drive expenses and – for party
committees – allocable exempt activity
costs, with federally permissible funds or
make such payments by allocating the
expenses between its federal and nonfederal accounts according to speciﬁed
allocation methods. A State, district or
local party committee engaging in allocable federal election activities may pay
for such activities entirely with federal
funds, or may allocate such payments
between its federal account and Levin
funds, according to speciﬁed allocation
methods. A separate segregated fund
FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

or nonconnected committee that makes
disbursements for public communications or voter drives that refer only to
a political party (not a candidate) may
allocate such expenditures, but must
report the allocation method and ratio
using Schedule H1.
When to Use Schedule H1
State, District and Local Party Committees. State, district and local party
committees that choose to allocate allocable expenses must report on Schedule
H1 the allocation methods and ratios
used for administrative expenses, the
costs of generic voter drives, the costs of
allocable exempt activities and the costs
of allocable “federal election activities”
as deﬁned at 11 CFR 100.24. Such committees must use Schedule H2 to report
the allocation methods and ratios used
for allocable fundraising and the costs
of allocable direct candidate support.
Separate Segregated Funds and Nonconnected Committees. Separate segregated funds and nonconnected committees that choose to allocate allocable
expenses must report the allocation
methods and ratios used on Schedule
H1 for administrative expenses, generic
voter drives and public communications
that refer only to a political party (not a
candidate for federal or nonfederal ofﬁce). (Note: A separate segregated fund
need not report administrative expenses
paid for by the committee’s connected
organization.) Such committees must
use Schedule H2 to report the allocation
methods and ratios used for allocable
fundraising and the costs of allocable
direct candidate support, including
public communications or voter drives
that refer to both federal and nonfederal
candidates, or both federal and nonfederal candidates and a political party.
(Note: A separate segregated fund need
not report fundraising expenses paid for
by the committee’s connected organization.) See the instructions for Schedule
H2 for more information.

Deﬁnitions
The term “generic voter drive” means
any voter identiﬁcation, voter registration, or get-out-the-vote drive, or any
other activity that urges the general
public to register, vote or support candidates of a particular party or associated
with a particular issue, without clearly
identifying a candidate. (Note that such
activity in a special election involving
only a federal candidate is treated as if
it mentions a speciﬁc candidate.)
The term “Nonfederal account”
means an account that contains funds
to be used in connection with a State
or local election or allocable expenses
as permitted by 11 CFR 106.7, 300.30
and 300.33. 11 CFR 300.2(j).
The term “Levin funds” means funds
that are raised and that are or will be
disbursed for speciﬁc “federal election
activity” pursuant to 11 CFR 300.31
and 300.32. 11 CFR 300.2(i).
The term “allocable Federal election
activity” means
• Voter registration activity during the
period that begins on the date that is
120 days before the date that a regularly scheduled federal election is held
and that ends on the date of the election; or
Any of the following, when conducted during the period of time beginning on the date of the earliest ﬁling
deadline for primary ballot access for
federal candidates, or in those States
that do not conduct primary elections,
on January 1 of each even numbered
year through the date of the general
election (including any general election
runoff). In the case of a special election
in an odd-numbered year, the applicable
period runs from the date on which the
date of the special election is set and
ends on the date of the special election.
See 11 CFR 100.24(a)(1).
• Voter identiﬁcation;
• Generic campaign activity, (i.e., a
public communication that promotes
or opposes a political party and does
not promote or oppose a clearly identiﬁed federal candidate or a nonfederal
candidate. See 11 CFR 100.25); or
• Get-out-the-vote activity. 11 CFR
100.24(b)(1) and (2)

Page 23

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Line-by-Line Instructions and
When To File
Enter the committee’s full name in
the appropriate block.
State, district and local party committees must allocate their administrative expenses, generic voter drive
costs, allocable exempt activity costs
and costs for allocable “federal election activity” according to a fixed
percentage. (See 11 CFR 106.7(d) and
300.33(b).) Check the appropriate
box on Schedule H1, Method of Allocation, to indicate the ﬁxed federal
percentage. The percentage is based
on whether a Presidential candidate,
a Senate candidate, both or neither
are expected on the ballot in the next
general federal election.
File Schedule H1 with the ﬁrst FEC
Form 3X submitted each year. 11
CFR 104.17(b)(1).
Nonconnected committees and
separate segregated funds that choose
to allocate must allocate their administrative expenses, generic voter drive
costs and costs for public communications that refer only to a political party
(not a candidate) according to the ﬂat
minimum federal percentage – 50 %.
(See 11 CFR 106.6(b).) Committees
must use at least 50% federal funds to
pay for these expenses. (To indicate
that the committee is using an exact
50/50 ratio, check the box indicated.)
The committee may choose to spend
more than 50% federal funds, but must
show the percentage of federal and
nonfederal funds used in the boxes
provided.
File Schedule H1, Method of Allocation, with each report that discloses an allocated disbursement for
the above categories of expenses. 11
CFR 104.10(b)(1). Supply a separate
Schedule H1 for each different ratio
the committee used during the reporting period. For each ratio disclosed,
check the appropriate box(es) to
indicate the category(ies) of disbursements to which the ratio applies.

Page 24

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE H2, ALLOCATION
RATIOS
(To Be Used For Allocable Federal
and Nonfederal Fundraising and Direct
Candidate Support)
Who Must File
Any State, district or local party
committee, separate segregated fund
or nonconnected committee that is
active in both federal and nonfederal
elections, and that has established separate federal and nonfederal accounts,
may either make all payments for allocable activity with federally permissible
funds, or may allocate expenses for its
allocable activities between its federal
and nonfederal accounts according to
speciﬁed allocation methods. Committees that choose to allocate expenses for
certain allocable activities must report
the allocation ratios used for each activity on Schedule H2, Allocation Ratios.
The categories of allocable activity
referred to on this Schedule include (1)
fundraising events through which both
federal and nonfederal funds are collected by one committee and (2) activities providing direct candidate support
to both speciﬁc federal and speciﬁc
nonfederal candidates. (For separate
segregated funds and nonconnected
committees only, this includes public
communications or voter drives that
refer to both federal and nonfederal
candidates, regardless of any reference
to a political party. Party committees may not allocate such expenses
between their federal and nonfederal
accounts; instead, they must treat them
as “federal election activity” and report
them accordingly on Line 30. See the
instructions for Schedules B, H5 and
H6 for more information.)
When To File
Schedule H2, the Allocation Ratios
Schedule, must accompany each FEC
Form 3X ﬁled by a committee that discloses a disbursement for an allocated
federal and nonfederal fundraising
event or direct candidate support activity.
FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Methods of Allocation
(1) Fundraising expenses are to
be allocated according to the “funds
received method,” whereby allocation
is based on the ratio of funds received
by the committee’s federal account as
compared to the total funds received
by all of the committee’s accounts
from each allocable fundraising event.
Detailed instructions for calculating
this ratio are contained in 11 CFR
106.7(d)(4) (for party committees) and
11 CFR 106.6(d) (for nonconnected
committees and separate segregated
funds).
(2) The costs of direct candidate
support activities are to be allocated according to a ratio based on the beneﬁt
expected to be derived by each candidate. Detailed instructions for calculating this ratio are contained in 11 CFR
106.1(a) and 11 CFR 106.6(f)(3) (for
certain public communications and
voter drives by nonconnected committees and separate segregated funds).
Line-by-Line Instructions
Enter the name of each activity or
event in the appropriate blocks.
Note: Each individual fundraising
event or activity providing direct candidate support must be assigned a unique
identifying title or code. The exact
title or code must be used consistently
throughout a committee’s reports when
disclosing transactions related to that
activity or event.
The committee must enter the percentage of costs allocated to its federal
account and its nonfederal account
for each individual activity or event.
These percentages are to be calculated
according to the appropriate allocation
method for each category of activity.
For each individual activity or event,
the committee must indicate whether it
is a fundraising event or an activity providing direct candidate support. If the
event represents activity for more than
one category, the committee must list
each category on a separate Line. The
committee must also indicate whether
the allocation ratio is new, revised or
the same as previously reported for that
activity or event.

Page 25

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE H3, TRANSFERS
FROM NONFEDERAL
ACCOUNTS FOR ALLOCATED
FEDERAL/NONFEDERAL
ACTIVITY
(To Be Used to Show Transfers
From Nonfederal Accounts to Federal
Accounts For The Purpose of Paying
Allocable Expenses)
Who Must File
Any State, district or local party
committee, separate segregated fund
or nonconnected committee that is
active in both federal and nonfederal
elections, and that has established
separate federal and nonfederal accounts, may either make all payments
for allocable activity with federally
permissible funds, or may allocate
expenses for its allocable activities
between its federal and nonfederal
accounts according to speciﬁed allocation methods. A committee that
chooses to allocate allocable expenses
must pay the bills for those expenses
from either its federal account or from
a separate allocation account which
is also a federal account subject to
the FECA’s reporting requirements.
The committee may transfer funds
from its nonfederal account to either
of these federal accounts, solely for
the purpose of paying the nonfederal
share of allocable expenses. All such
transfers must occur not more than
10 days before or 60 days after the
payments for which they are intended
are made, and must be itemized on
Schedule H3. This Schedule is used
only in support of Line 18(a) of the
Detailed Summary Page. All other
federal account receipts should be
itemized as required on Schedule A or
Schedule H5, as appropriate.
When To File
Schedule H3 must be ﬁled for each
reporting period in which any funds
are transferred from a nonfederal account to a federal account for the purpose of paying the nonfederal share of
a committee’s allocable expenses.
Page 26

Line-by-Line Instructions
Name of Account; Date of Receipt;
Total Amount Transferred. The committee must enter its full name, the
name of the nonfederal account from
which each transfer is made, and the
date and total amount of the transfer
in the appropriate blocks.
Each transfer from a nonfederal account to a federal account may include
funds intended to pay for more than
one allocable activity. Therefore, the
committee must indicate on Lines i)
through vi) the purposes for which
each transfer is made, and the amount
designated for each such purpose.
Line i) List the total amount used for
administrative expenses.
Line ii) List the total amount used for
generic voter drive costs.
Line iii) List the amount used for
each allocable exempt activity (State,
district and local party committees
only).
Line iv) List the amount used for allocable direct fundraising activity.
Line v) List the amount used for
allocable direct candidate support.
For separate segregated funds and
nonconnected committees only, this
includes amounts used for public
communications or voter drives referencing both federal and nonfederal
candidates (regardless of any reference
to a political party).
Note: In the space provided on
Lines iv and v, list the activity or event
identiﬁer used on Schedule H2, Allocation Ratios, to identify each separate
fundraising event or direct candidate
support activity.
Line vi) List the amount used for public communications referring only to
a political party (separate segregated
funds and nonconnected committees
only).
Compute subtotals for each line
at the bottom of each page for the
transfers itemized on that page. Carry
the “Total This Period” for the column
“Total Amount Transferred” forward
to Line 18(a) of the Detailed Summary Page.
Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS
FOR SCHEDULE H4,
DISBURSEMENTS FOR
ALLOCATED FEDERAL/
NONFEDERAL ACTIVITY
(FEC FORM 3X)
(To Be Used For Allocated Federal/
Nonfederal Activity)
Who Must File
Any State, district or local party
committee, separate segregated fund
or nonconnected committee that is
active in both federal and nonfederal
elections, and that has established
separate federal and nonfederal accounts, may either make all payments
for allocable activity with federally
permissible funds, or may allocate
expenses for its allocable activities
between its federal and nonfederal
accounts according to speciﬁed allocation methods. A committee that
chooses to allocate allocable expenses
must pay the bills for those expenses
from either its federal account or from
a separate allocation account which is
also a federal account subject to the
FECA’s reporting requirements. The
committee may transfer funds within
speciﬁed time limits from its nonfederal account to cover the nonfederal
share of the allocated expense. The
committee must itemize each allocated
disbursement for activity allocated
between its federal and nonfederal
accounts as made from its federal account or separate allocation account
on Schedule H4. Only disbursements
supporting Line 21(a), Allocated
Federal/Nonfederal Activity, of the
Detailed Summary Page are reported
on Schedule H4. Disbursements supporting Line 21(b), Other Federal Operating Expenditures, of the Detailed
Summary Page must be itemized on
Schedule B, as required. All other disbursements from the federal account
must also be itemized, as required, on
Schedules B or E and by State, district
and local party committees also on
Schedules F or H6, as appropriate.

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

When to File
Schedule H4 must be ﬁled for each
reporting period in which disbursements are made from a committee’s
federal account or separate allocation
account to pay for allocated federal/
nonfederal expenses under 11 CFR
106.6 or 106.7.
Line-by-Line Instructions
Enter the committee’s full name in
the appropriate block of each page.
For each disbursement itemized
during the reporting period, provide
the payee’s full name and mailing address, the date, and the purpose for
which the disbursement was made.
Note: Purpose
(a) Purpose. The term “purpose”
means a brief statement or description
of why the disbursement was made.
Examples of adequate descriptions
include the following: dinner expenses,
media, polling, travel, party fees,
phone banks, travel expenses, travel
expense reimbursement, and catering
costs. However, descriptions such as
“advance,” “election day expenses,”
“other expenses,” “expense reimbursement,” “miscellaneous,” “outside services,” “get-out-the-vote” and “voter
registration,” would not meet the
requirement for reporting the purpose
of a disbursement.
(b) Category/Type Code. Along
with reporting the purpose of the expenditure as required above, the committee should also broadly characterize disbursements by providing the
category/type code for each category
of disbursement. Examples of the
types of disbursements that fall within
each of the broad categories are listed
below. Use only one code for each
itemized disbursement. In cases where
the disbursement was for several purposes, the political committee should
assign one code according to the primary purpose of the disbursement.
Note that some of the category titles
are not acceptable as the “purpose” of
the disbursement and that the categories are not intended to replace or to
serve as a substitute for the “purpose
of disbursement.”

001 Administrative/Overhead Expenses (e.g., rent, postage, ofﬁce
supplies, equipment, furniture,
ballot access fees, petition drives,
party fees and legal and accounting expenses)
002 Travel Expenses—including travel
reimbursement expenses (e.g.,
costs of commercial carrier tickets;
reimbursements for use of private
vehicles; advance payments for
use of corporate aircraft; lodging
and meal expenses incurred during
travel)
003 Solicitation and Fundraising
Expenses (e.g., costs for direct
mail solicitations and fundraising
events including printing, mailing
lists, consultant fees, call lists, invitations, catering costs and room
rental)
004 Advertising Expenses—including
general public political advertising
(e.g., purchases of radio/television
broadcast/cable time, print advertisements and related production
costs)
005 Polling Expenses
006 Campaign Materials (e.g., buttons, bumper stickers, brochures,
mass mailings, pens, posters and
balloons)
007 Campaign Event Expenses (e.g.,
costs associated with candidate
appearances, campaign rallies,
town meetings, phone banks,
including catering costs, door to
door get-out-the-vote efforts and
driving voters to the polls)
008 Transfers (e.g., to other afﬁliated/
party committees)
009 Loans (e.g., loans made or repayments of loans received)
010 Refunds of Contributions (e.g.,
contribution refunds to individuals/persons, political party committees or other political committees)
011 Political Contributions (e.g.,
contributions to other federal
committees and candidates, and
donations to nonfederal candidates and committees)
012 Donations (e.g., donations to
charitable or civic organizations)

Page 27

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

(c) Unique Activity or Event
Identiﬁer. If the disbursement was
for an allocable fundraising event or
allocable direct federal and nonfederal candidate support, the activity or
event must be identiﬁed by the unique
activity or event identiﬁer assigned to
it on Schedule H2, Allocation Ratios,
in addition to the purpose for which
the disbursement was made.
Allocated Activity or Event. Identify the type of “allocated activity or
event” for which each disbursement is
made by checking the appropriate box.
(Note for separate segregated funds
and nonconnected committees only:
For public communications that are
made by a nonconnected committee or
separate segregated fund and that refer
only to a political party, check “Public
Comm (ref to Party Only) by PAC.”
For public communications and voter
drives that refer to both federal and
nonfederal candidates, regardless
of any reference to a political party,
check “Direct Candidate Support.”)
A disbursement representing payment
for more than one type of activity is
reported as a memo entry followed by
a break down of the disbursement by
type of activity, with the appropriate
boxes checked. The committee must
also enter the aggregate amount of all
disbursements made year-to-date as of
this report for each type of activity or
individual event. For fundraising and
direct candidate support, a separate
aggregate amount must be reported
for each individual activity or event.
For administrative expenses, generic
voter drive activity, allocable exempt
activities and allocable public communications that refer only to a party
and are made by a separate segregated
fund or nonconnected committee, one
aggregate amount for all disbursements in that type is sufﬁcient.
Enter the total amount of each
disbursement in the appropriate box.
For each disbursement for allocated
expenses, the committee must enter
the total amounts allocated to the
federal and nonfederal accounts in the
appropriate boxes. For State, district
and local party committees disclosing administrative expenses, allocable
exempt activities and generic voter
Page 28

drive costs, the federal and nonfederal shares are derived from the ﬁxed
percentage stated on Schedule H1,
Method of Allocation. For separate
segregated funds and nonconnected
committees disclosing administrative
expenses, generic voter drive costs
and public communications that
refer only to a party, the federal and
nonfederal shares are derived from
the ﬂat minimum federal percentage
ratio disclosed on Schedule H1 for that
type of disbursement. For the costs of
fundraising and direct candidate support, these amounts are derived from
the percentages stated for each event
on Schedule H2, Allocation Ratios.
(Note that administrative and fundraising expenses are neither allocated
nor disclosed by a separate segregated
fund when those costs are paid by its
connected organization.)
If an allocated disbursement was
made, in whole or in part, for direct
candidate support (e.g., an in-kind
contribution benefiting both speciﬁc federal and speciﬁc nonfederal
candidates), the federal share of the
disbursement must be disclosed on
Schedule B, E or F, supporting Line
23, 24 or 25 of the Detailed Summary
Page, as appropriate. The “Federal
Share” box on Schedule H4 should
contain a reference to Schedule B, E or
F and the appropriate Line number of
the Detailed Summary Page on which
this information is reported. The nonfederal share of the disbursement must
be entered in the “Nonfederal Share”
box on Schedule H4.
Compute subtotals for each page
and totals for the reporting period for
the total amount of disbursements,
and for the total federal and nonfederal shares. The “Total This Period”
for the federal share and the nonfederal share are carried forward to Lines
21(a)(i) and 21(a)(ii), respectively, of
the Detailed Summary Page.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE H5, TRANSFERS
OF LEVIN FUNDS RECEIVED
(FEC FORM 3X)
(To Be Used to Show Transfers
of Levin Funds from Nonfederal
Account or Levin Account
to Federal Account For The
Purpose of Paying Allocable
Expenses for Federal Election
Activity)
Who Must File
Any State, district or local party
committee that is a political committee and engages in allocable federal
election activities must ﬁle. Any association or similar group of candidates
for State or local ofﬁce or of individuals holding State or local ofﬁce that
is not a political committee does not
have to ﬁle this form.
Reporting committees may either
make all payments for that allocable
federal election activity with federally
permissible funds, or may allocate
expenses for it between its federal
account and Levin funds, according
to the ﬁxed percentage reported on
Schedule H1. A party committee that
chooses to allocate allocable expenses
for “federal election activity” must
pay for those expenses from either its
federal account or from a separate
allocation account which is also a
federal account subject to the FECA’s
reporting requirements. The committee may transfer Levin funds from its
Levin account or nonfederal account
to either of these federal accounts,
solely for the purpose of paying the
Levin share of allocable expenses. All
such transfers must occur not more
than 10 days before or 60 days after the
payments for which they are intended
are made, and must be itemized as receipts on Schedule H5. This Schedule
is used only in support of Line 18(b)
of the Detailed Summary Page.

FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

Line-by-Line Instructions
Name of Committee: Enter the
committee’s full name.
For each transfer made, complete a
block as follows:
Account Name: Enter the name
of the Levin account or the name of
the non-federal account from which
a transfer of Levin funds has been
made.
Breakdown of Transfer Received:
Note: Each transfer of Levin funds
to a federal account may include funds
intended to pay for more than one type
of allocable federal election activity.
Therefore, the committee must indicate in each block on Lines i) through
iv) the amount of each transfer for
each type of allocable federal election
activity.
1. Enter the date and total amount
of the transfer in the appropriate
blocks.
2. Line i): List the total amount to be
used for voter registration costs.
3. Line ii): List the amount to be used
for voter identiﬁcation costs.
4. Line iii): List the amount to be used
for get-out-the-vote costs.
5. Line iv): List the amount to be
used for the costs of generic campaign activity (i.e., public communications covered by 11 CFR
100.25).
Compute subtotals as indicated
at the bottom of each page for the
transfers itemized on that page. Carry
forward the “Total This Period” for
the column “Total Amount Transferred” to Line 18(b) of the Detailed
Summary Page.
When To File
File Schedule H5 for each reporting
period in which any Levin funds are
transferred to a federal account for the
purpose of paying the Levin share of
a committee’s allocable expenses.

Page 29

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS
FOR SCHEDULE H6,
DISBURSEMENTS OF
FEDERAL AND LEVIN FUNDS
FOR ALLOCATED FEDERAL
ELECTION ACTIVITY (FEC
FORM 3X)
(To Be Used For Allocated
Federal/Levin Federal Election
Activity)
Who Must File
Any State, district or local party
committee that engages in allocable
federal election activities (see 11 CFR
300.32 and 300.33), and that has established separate federal and Levin
accounts, or that has raised Levin
funds, may either make all payments
for allocable federal election activity
with federally permissible funds, or
may allocate expenses for its allocable
federal election activity between its
federal account and Levin funds according to the ﬁxed percentage reported on Schedule H1. A committee that
chooses to allocate federal election activity expenses must pay for those expenses from either its federal account
or from a separate allocation account
which is also a federal account subject
to the FECA’s reporting requirements.
The committee may transfer Levin
funds within speciﬁed time limits to
cover the Levin share of the allocated
expense. The committee must itemize
each allocated disbursement made
from its federal account or separate
allocation account for allocable federal election activity on Schedule H6.
Only disbursements supporting Line
30(a), Allocated Federal Election Activity, of the Detailed Summary Page
should be reported on Schedule H6.
Itemize disbursements supporting
Line 30(b), Federal Election Activity
Paid Entirely with Federal Funds, on
Schedule B for Line 30(b), as required.
Itemize all other disbursements from
the federal account, as required, on
Schedule B, E, F or H4.

Page 30

Line-by-Line Instructions
Enter the committee’s full name in
the appropriate block of each page.
For each disbursement itemized
during the reporting period, provide:
1. The payee’s full name and mailing
address;
2. The date; and
3. The purpose for which the disbursement was made.
Purpose: The term “purpose”
means a brief statement or description
of why the disbursement was made.
Examples of adequate descriptions
include the following: dinner expenses,
media, polling, travel, party fees,
phone banks, travel expenses, travel
expense reimbursement, and catering
costs. However, descriptions such as
“advance,” “election day expenses,”
“other expenses,” “expense reimbursement,” “miscellaneous,” “outside services,” “get-out-the-vote,” and “voter
registration,” would not meet the
requirement for reporting the purpose
of a disbursement.
Identify the “type of allocated activity” for which each disbursement
is made by checking the appropriate
box. A disbursement representing
payment for more than one category
of activity is reported as a memo entry followed by a break down of the
disbursement by category of activity,
with the appropriate boxes checked.
The committee must also enter the aggregate amount of all disbursements
made year-to-date for each category
of activity or individual event.
The total amount of each disbursement must be entered in the appropriate box. For each disbursement,
enter the total amounts allocated to
the federal account and Levin funds
in the appropriate boxes. The federal
and Levin shares are derived from the
percentage stated on the Schedule H1,
Method of Allocation.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

FE5AN015

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3X AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE L, AGGREGATION
PAGE, LEVIN FUNDS OF
STATE, DISTRICT OR LOCAL
PARTY COMMITTEES (FEC
FORM 3X)
Who Must File
All State, district or local party
committees that are political committees under 11 CFR 100.5 must disclose
certain information about Levin funds
raised, and transferred or otherwise
disbursed by the committee. Every
reporting period, each such committee
must ﬁle an Aggregation Page summarizing the receipts and disbursements
of its Levin funds for that reporting
period and for the calendar year-todate. The committee may disclose and
itemize under 11 CFR 300.36(b)(2)(iv)
its receipt of Levin funds either at
the time the receipts are ﬁrst received
and deposited or at a later date when
the committee makes Levin disbursements out of Levin-eligible funds.
If a committee maintains a separate
Levin account, the committee must
disclose and itemize the Levin receipts
when they are deposited in the Levin
account. A separate Aggregation
Page must be submitted for each of
the committee’s accounts that handles
Levin funds, whether that account is a
dedicated “Levin account” or whether
it is another non-federal account. The
committee must also attach Schedule
L-A and Schedule L-B, itemizing the
receipts and disbursements of Levin
funds.
Line-by-Line Instructions
Enter the committee’s full name
and the coverage dates of the report
in the appropriate blocks.
To calculate the “Calendar Yearto-Date” figure for each Line, the
committee should add the ﬁgure from
the same Line of its previous report to
the “Total This Period” for the current
report. For the ﬁrst report ﬁled in a
calendar year, the “Calendar Yearto-Date” ﬁgure and the “Total This
Period” ﬁgure will be the same.
FE5AN015

Federal Election Commission (Revised 12/2004)

If there were no receipts or disbursements for a particular Line during the
reporting period or the calendar year,
enter “0” on the appropriate Lines.

LINE 8. Enter the “Total This Period”
ﬁgure from Line 3.

Receipts (Schedule L-A)

LINE 10. Enter the “Total This Period” ﬁgure from Line 6.

LINE 1. Enter the total amount of
receipts of Levin funds from individuals, committees and other entities.
For each individual or entity who has
made one or more donations during
the calendar year, the committee must
disclose in a memo Schedule L-A the
following information: the identiﬁcation of the individual (full name,
mailing address, name of employer
and occupation) or entity (full name
and mailing address), and the date of
receipt and amount of each donation
aggregating $200 or more. (See also
instructions for Schedule A).
LINE 2. Enter the total of any other
receipts disclosed in a memo Schedule
L-A.
LINE 3. Add the total of Line 1 and
Line 2.

LINE 9. Add Lines 7 and 8 to derive
the subtotal for receipts.

LINE 11. Subtract Line 10 from Line
9 to derive the ﬁgure for Levin funds
on hand at the close of the reporting
period.
When To File
Submit Schedule L, the Levin
Funds Aggregation Page, and supporting memo Schedules L-A and L-B
with each report once the committee
has combined receipts and disbursements of $5,000 or more in the aggregate for “federal election activity”
during the calendar year as deﬁned at
11 CFR 100.24. Note that once this
threshold is passed, the committee
must ﬁle FEC reports on a monthly
basis. 11 CFR 300.36(c)(1).

Disbursements (Schedule L-B)
LINE 4. Enter the total amount of
transfers of Levin funds made to
the committee’s federal account or
allocation account for each category
of allocable federal election activity.
Itemize each such transfer on a memo
Schedule L-B in full. (See also instructions for Schedule B).
LINE 5. Enter the total amount of
all other disbursements disclosed on
a memo Schedule L-B. All such disbursements must be itemized if they
exceed $200 or more.
LINE 6. Add Lines 4(e) and 5 to derive
the ﬁgure for total disbursements.
Summary
LINE 7. Enter the total amount of
cash on hand at the beginning of
the reporting period. For Column B
(“Calendar Year-to-Date”), enter the
total amount of cash on hand as of
January 1 of the calendar year.

Page 31

