INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 13 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Preparing FEC FORM 13
Report of Donations Accepted for Inaugural Committee
Deﬁnitions

For purposes of this form:
Inaugural committee means the
committee appointed by the Presidentelect to be in charge of the Presidential
inaugural ceremony and functions,
and activities connected with the inaugural ceremony, and that has ﬁled the
letter required by 11 CFR 104.21(b).
Donation means a payment, gift,
subscription, loan, advance, or anything of value given to an inaugural
committee.
Who Must File
FEC Form 13 must be ﬁled by the
chairperson or other ofﬁcer identiﬁed
in the inaugural committee’s letterﬁling under 11 CFR 104.21(b).
When to File
The Commission must receive this
report not later than 11:59 p.m. (Eastern Time) of the 90th day following
the date on which the Presidential
inaugural ceremony is held. If a
supplement to this report is necessary,
the Commission must receive that
supplement no later than 11:59 p.m.
(Eastern Time) of the 90th day following the ﬁling date of the report (or
most recent supplement if a previous
supplement has been ﬁled).
Where to File
File this Form with the Federal
Election Commission, 999 E Street,
N.W., Washington, DC 20463.
The inaugural committee must
retain copies of its ﬁlings and related
records for a period of not less than
three years from the date of ﬁling.

FE5AN013

Line By Line Instructions
LINE 1. Name and Address of Committee. Provide the requested information.
LINE 2. FEC Identiﬁcation Number.
Enter the FEC identiﬁcation number
provided by the Commission in
response to the letter-ﬁling required
by 11 CFR 104.21(b).
LINE 3a. Type of Filing. Check
“Report” if this is your ﬁrst Form 13
ﬁling—due within 90 days after the
inauguration. Check “Supplement” if
you are disclosing donations accepted
or refunds made since your previous
Form 13 ﬁling.
LINE 3b. New or Amendment. Check
“New” if this is a new report or if you
are ﬁling a supplement to a report.
Check “Amendment” if you are correcting a previously ﬁled report or
supplement, and provide the filing
date of the report or supplement to
which the amendment relates.

LINE 5. Total Donations Accepted.
Provide the total donations itemized
on all Schedules 13-A ﬁled since the
committee’s inception.
LINE 6. Total Donations Refunded.
Provide the sum total of refunds made
to donors itemized on all Schedules
13-B ﬁled since the committee’s inception.
LINE 7. Net Donations. Provide the
total net donations by subtracting the
total donations refunded (Line 6) from
the total donations received (Line 5).
Provide the name and title of
the committee ofﬁcer designated in
the letter-filing to sign this report.
The designated ofﬁcer (see 11 CFR
104.21(b)) must sign and date the
report.

LINE 4. Covering Period. Enter the
ﬁrst and last dates of ﬁnancial activity covered by the ﬁling; on the report
these dates should begin with the date
of appointment by the President-elect
and end with the closing date of the
report, which should be a date 15
days or less from the date the report is
ﬁled. Note that the ﬁrst date covered
by a supplement should be the day
after the closing date of the report (or
most recent supplement if a previous
supplement has been ﬁled) and the
last date covered by a supplement is
the closing date of the supplement,
which should be a date 15 days or
less from the date the supplement is
ﬁled. For amendments to a report or
supplement, list the coverage period
for the original ﬁling.

Federal Election Commission (10/2004)

Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 13 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE 13-A (ITEMIZED
DONATIONS ACCEPTED)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE 13-B (ITEMIZED
REFUNDS OF DONATIONS)

For each donation of money or
anything of value aggregating $200
or more, provide the donor’s name
and mailing address, the amount of
each donation, the date of receipt
by the inaugural committee and the
aggregate total of donations accepted
to date from that donor.

For each refund of a reported donation made by the committee, enter the
payee’s name and address, the date the
refund was made and the amount.
After itemizing the refunds, add the
total itemized to the total of refunds
previously itemized (if any) and enter
the total amount on Line 6 of Form
13. (Optional: To facilitate this calculation, subtotal each Schedule 13-B.
(You may use multiple pages.) Add the
total on the last page of Schedule 13B to the total previously reported on
Line 6 of Form 13 (if any) and carry
the total to Line 6 of Form 13.)

After itemizing the donations, add
the total amount to the total of any
previously itemized donations and
enter the sum total on Line 5 of Form
13. (Optional: To facilitate this calculation, subtotal each Schedule 13-A.
(You may use multiple pages.) Add
the total on the last page of Schedule
13-A to the total amount previously
reported on Line 5 of Form 13 (if
any), and carry the total to Line 5 of
Form 13.)

Page 2

Federal Election Commission (10/2004)

This form may be duplicated.

FE5AN013

