INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 8

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Debt Settlement Plan (FEC FORM 8)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEBT
SETTLEMENT PLAN, PART I

Political committees that settle their
debts for less than the full value are required to file a debt settlement plan for
Commission review. Only terminating
committees are eligible to file debt
settlement plans. A terminating committee is one that is winding down its political activities in preparation of filing
a termination report and would be able
to terminate except that it has outstanding debts and obligations. A political
committee will be considered to be
winding down its political activities if it
has ceased to make or accept contributions and expenditures, other than contributions accepted for debt retirement
purposes and expenditures representing
payments of debts or obligations previously incurred or payments for the costs
associated with the termination of political activity.
Every terminating committee that
settles a debt for less than full value shall
file at least one debt settlement plan for
the Commission to review, prior to filing its termination report. The plan
should be filed after the creditors have
agreed to the settlement. Payments
should not be made until completion of
Commission review.
Debts and obligations subject to debt
settlement and Commission review include amounts owed to commercial vendors, debts arising from advances by
committee staff and other individuals,
salary owed to committee employees
and debts arising from loans from political committees or individuals, including candidates, to the extent permitted
under 11 CFR Part 110.
Debts and obligations that shall not
be forgiven or settled for less than the
amount due include repayment obligations pursuant to 11 CFR 9007.2,
FE1AN062.PDF

9008.10, 9008.11, 9038.2 or 9038.3 of
funds received from the Presidential
Election Campaign Fund or the Presidential Primary Matching Payment Account. Debts that are disputed are not
subject to the debt settlement and Commission review requirements and procedures.
Committees that file or who have
filed a debt settlement plan should continue to report each outstanding debt or
obligation included in a debt settlement
plan on its report of receipts and disbursements until the Commission has
informed the committee that it has completed its review of the plan.
Treasurer’s Responsibilities
A copy of this Plan must be preserved
by the treasurer of the political committee for a period of not less than three
years from the date of filing. The treasurer of the political committee is personally responsible for the information
submitted in the plan and for responding to any Commission request regarding the plan or any information contained in it.
Where to File
An original must be filed as follows:
• Committees which only support or oppose a candidate(s) for the Senate must
file with the Secretary of the Senate,
Office of Public Records, 232 Hart
Senate Office Building, Washington,
D.C. 20510-7116.
• All other political committees must file
with the Federal Election Commission,
999 E Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
20463.
Political committees filing a debt
settlement plan must file with the Secretary of State (or appropriate State officer) of each state a copy of that portion of the report applicable to candidates seeking (who sought) election in
that State. Principal campaign committees of House and Senate candidates
must file a copy of this form with the

state in which the office is sought, with
the exception of committees of candidates in states that have qualified for the
Commission’s state filing waiver program. Principal campaign committees
of Presidential candidates must file a
copy of this form in each state in which
they have made expenditures, with the
exception of those states that have qualified for the Commission’s state filing
waiver program. A list of qualified states
is available from the Federal Election
Commission.
Unauthorized political committees
must continue to file copies of this form
with the states in which they have their
headquarters, with the exception of committees that are located in states that
have qualified for the state waiver program.
Line-by-Line Instructions for
Part I
Fill out the committee’s full name, address and the FEC identification number assigned to your committee.
LINE 1. Enter the committee’s cash on
hand and the date.
LINE 2. Calculate the value of any of
the committee’s assets that can be liquidated. Enter the total amount on Line 2.
LINE 3. Add Lines 1 and 2.
LINE 4. Enter the year to date receipts
for the calendar year.
LINE 5. Enter the year to date disbursements for the calendar year.
LINE 6. Enter the total amount of debts
and obligations owed by the committee,
including loans.
LINE 7. Enter the total number of creditors owed by the committee.
LINE 8. Enter the number of creditors
that are in Part II of this plan.
LINE 9. Total the debts owed to the
creditors in Part II of this plan, and enter the amount on this line.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 8

LINE 10. Add the amounts to be paid
to the creditors in Part II of this plan,
and enter the amount on this line.
LINE 11. Only committees that are terminating are eligible to file a debt settlement plan. Check the appropriate box.
If you check the “no” box, do not go
any further. If yes, put the date you expect the committee to file a termination
report.
LINE 12. List any other political
committee(s) the candidate has authorized to support his/her candidacy for
election to federal office.
LINE 13. If Line 3 above is less than
Line 10, please explain how the committee expects to obtain the additional
funds.
LINE 14. If the committee has filed any
debt settlement plans prior to this one,
check yes, even if the committee has not
received an acknowledgment of the plan
from the Commission.
LINE 15. Should the committee have
any residual funds after it has paid or
settled all debts and obligations, state
how they will be spent.
After completing the entire plan, the
treasurer should sign and date the plan.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEBT
SETTLEMENT PLAN, PART II

For each creditor in the plan with
whom the committee is settling a debt,
a separate PART II should be filled out.
Enter the committee’s full name and
FEC identification number in the appropriate boxes. For Part II put in the page
number as well as the number of pages
included in the plan for this part.
Enter the creditor’s name and address
as reported on the debt schedules filed
with the committee’s reports of receipts
and disbursements (FEC FORM 3 or
3X).

Date incurred. Enter the date the
committee incurred the debt. If it is a
debt that accumulated over a period of
time, enter the time frame in which the
debt was incurred.
Amount owed to creditor. Enter the
amount owed to the creditor. If this is
different than what the committee has
disclosed on its reports include an explanation.
Amount offered in the settlement.
Enter the amount the creditor is being
offered to settle the debt.
Type of creditor. Check the appropriate box.
A. Terms of the initial extension of
credit/nature of the debt. Describe the
initial terms of the debt and give a brief
description of the nature of the debt.
Terms include any time requirements for
payment such as monthly, 30 day, etc.,
as well as any extensions on the original terms and any penalties for failure
to comply.
B. Efforts made by the committee
to pay the debt. Briefly describe the
committee’s efforts to pay the debt in
full.
C. Steps taken by the creditor to
collect the debt. Briefly describe what
steps the creditor took to collect the
debt. Examples include: oral and written requests for payment, withholding
delivery of additional goods or services
until overdue debts are satisfied, late
charges or penalties, referral to commercial debt collection service and/or litigation.

SECTION, OR ATTACH A COPY OF
THE SIGNED AGREEMENT THE
COMMITTEE AND CREDITOR
HAVE ENTERED INTO.
If the committee is released from
debts pursuant to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy
discharge, attach a copy of the bankruptcy court order so indicating and a
list of all debts from which the committee is released. Do not include a separate Part II for any such debt.

The Following Questions Should
Be Answered by the Creditor
D. Was the effort made by the
creditor to collect the debt similar to
other debt collection efforts against
nonpolitical debtors? If no, please explain why the committee was treated
differently.
E. Are the terms of the debt settlement comparable to other settlements
made by the creditor with nonpolitical debtors? If no, please describe how
the terms are different from those offered
to nonpolitical debtors.
THE COMMITTEE SHOULD EITHER HAVE THE CREDITOR SIGN
AND DATE THE APPROPRIATE

Does the committee have sufficient
funds to pay the remaining amounts
to be paid or offered? If the committee
does not have sufficient funds to cover
the total amount to be offered or paid to
its remaining creditors, briefly explain
how the funds will be obtained.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 1/2001)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEBT
SETTLEMENT PLAN, PART III

Fill in the committee’s full name and
FEC identification number. For PART
III put in the page number as well as the
number of pages included in the plan for
this part.
List Remaining Debts. List any
debts and obligations that the committee owes that are not included in this
plan. Fill out the appropriate information for each remaining creditor.
Amount expected to pay or offer.
This should represent the amount that
the committee expects to offer the creditor to settle the debt.

FE1AN062.PDF

