INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 9 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Federal Election Commission

Instructions for Preparing FEC FORM 9 (24 Hour Notice of
Disbursements for Electioneering Communications)
Who Must File
Every person, group of persons,
qualified nonprofit corporation or organization that makes disbursements
for electioneering communications
aggregating in excess of $10,000 during a calendar year must report these
disbursements by submitting FEC
Form 9. For purposes of these notices “disbursements” includes actual
disbursements and the execution of
contracts creating an obligation to
make disbursements for electioneering
communications. The Commission
must receive the notice by 11:59 p.m.
of the day following the date of the
first public disclosure of the electioneering communication that triggers
the reporting requirement. Each
time subsequent disbursements for
electioneering communications made
by the same person or entity aggregate
in excess of $10,000, another notice
must be submitted. (Note: Political
committees that make disbursements
for such communications must report
such disbursements on FEC Form
3X as expenditures or independent
expenditures, as appropriate.)
Qualified Nonprofit Corporations
that make disbursements for or execute contracts obligating them to
make disbursements for electioneering
communications must also certify that
they fit the criteria for exemption from
the prohibition on corporations making electioneering communications
under 11 CFR 114.10.
Definitions
Electioneering Communication
means any broadcast, cable or satellite communication that (1) refers to
a clearly identified candidate; (2) is
publicly distributed; (3) is distributed
within 60 days prior to a general election or 30 days prior to a primary
election; and (4) can be received by
50,000 or more people in the House
District or State that the candidate
seeks to represent, or in the case of
6PG024

Presidential primaries, the State holding a Presidential primary within 30
days of the date of public distribution.
11 CFR 100.29.
Public Distribution of an electioneering communication means the airing, broadcast, cablecast or other dissemination of such a communication
through the facilities of a television
station, radio station, cable television
system or satellite system.
Date of Public Distribution refers to
the “Disclosure Date” under 11 CFR
104.20(a)(1). That regulation defines
the date that triggers disclosure of
an electioneering communication.
The first reportable date of public
distribution in a calendar year is the
date that an electioneering communication is publicly distributed when
the maker of the communication has
also surpassed the $10,000 disbursement threshold. Counting toward the
$10,000 threshold are disbursements
made for the direct costs of producing
or airing the communication aired on
the first reportable date plus the direct
costs of any previously unreported
electioneering communications. After
the first disclosure date, subsequent
disclosure notices must be filed on
the day following each date on which
an electioneering communication is
publicly distributed, provided that
the direct costs for any electioneering communications since the last
Form 9 was filed aggregate in excess
of $10,000.
Direct Costs of Producing or Airing Electioneering Communications
means (1) costs charged by a vendor
(e.g., studio rental time, staff salaries,
costs of video or audio recording media and talent) or (2) costs of airtime
on broadcast, cable and satellite radio
and television stations, studio time,
material costs and the charges for a
broker to purchase the airtime. 11
CFR 104.20(a)(2).
Qualified nonprofit corporation is
a corporation that either (i) has the

following characteristics: (a) Its only
express purpose is the promotion of
political ideas (i.e., issue advocacy,
election influencing activity and research, training or educational activity
expressly tied to its political goals); (b)
It cannot engage in business activities;
(c) It does not have (1) shareholders
or persons (other than employees
and creditors) who are affiliated in a
way that could allow them to make a
claim on its assets or earnings; or (2)
persons who receive a benefit that is a
disincentive for them to disassociate
themselves with the corporation on
the basis of the corporation’s position on a political issue; (d) It was not
established by a business corporation
or labor organization, does not accept
donations from business corporations
or labor organizations; and if unable,
for good cause, to demonstrate that
it has not accepted such donations,
has a written policy against accepting
donations from business corporations
or labor organizations; and (e) It is
described in 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(4).
(See 11 CFR 114.10); or (ii) has been
deemed entitled to qualified nonprofit
corporation status by a court in competent jurisdiction in a case in which
the same corporation was a party. (See
11 CFR 114.10(e)(1)(i)(B).)
Donation as used on this Form
means any gift, subscription, loan,
advance or deposit of money or anything of value given to any person that
is used to finance an electioneering
communication.
Name of Employer means the organization or person by whom an
individual is employed, rather than the
name of his or her supervisor. Individuals who are self-employed should
indicate “self-employed.”
Occupation means the principal job
title or position of an individual.
Purpose means a brief statement or
description of why the disbursement
was made.
Federal Election Commission (4/2006), Page 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 9 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

When to File
The Commission must receive
notices of electioneering communications no later than 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard/Daylight Time of
the day following the date on which
an electioneering communication is
publicly distributed for the first time,
provided that the $10,000 threshold
has been reached. The Commission
must receive notices of subsequent
disbursements for additional airings
of the same electioneering communication and/or for other electioneering
communications by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight Time of the
days that follow the dates of public
distribution of later electioneering
communications, whenever the costs
of such communications bring subsequent aggregate disbursement totals
to more than $10,000. These later
aggregations must include any previously unreported disbursements for
electioneering communications that
have been publicly distributed since
the most recent notice was filed.
Notices of electioneering communications may be filed by fax to (202)2190174 by electronic mail to 2022190174@
fec.gov or by online webform available
on the Commission’s web site at
http://www.fec.gov/elecfil/online.shtml.
Where To File
File all notices of electioneering
communications with the Federal
Election Commission, 999 E Street,
N.W., Washington, DC 20463.
For notices of electioneering communications referencing a candidate
for the House in Guam or Puerto
Rico, submit a copy to the territory in
which the candidate seeks election.
For notices of electioneering communications made in Guam or Puerto
Rico referencing a candidate for
President or Vice President, submit a
copy to the territory in which the expenditure is made. As of March 2006,
those territories had not qualified for
the Commission’s state filing waiver
program.
Persons filing notices of electioneering communications must retain
copies of their notices for a period
Page , Federal Election Commission (4/2006)

of not less than 3 years from the date
of filing.
Line By Line Instructions
LINE 1. Individual, Organization
or Qualified Nonprofit Corporation
Making the Disbursements/Obligations. Provide the requested information. Individual filers: provide
the name of your employer and your
occupation.
LINE 2. FEC Identification Number.
First time filers—leave this line blank.
Previous filers with an identification
number—enter that number.
LINE 3. New or Amended. Check
“Amended” if you are filing an amendment to a previous notice. Otherwise,
check “New.”
LINE 4. Covering Period. Enter the
first and last dates of financial activity
covered by the statement; these dates
should begin with the date of the first
related disbursement and end with the
date of public distribution.
LINE 5. a) Date of Public Distribution. Enter the public distribution
date of the electioneering communication for which disbursements have exceeded $10,000 or whose related costs
together with earlier disbursements for
electioneering communications have
exceeded $10,000, thereby triggering
the 24-hour notice requirement. If
this is the first notice filed with regard
of a particular electioneering communication by the maker, enter the
date that the communication was first
publicly distributed. If this is not the
first notice filed with regard to a particular electioneering communication
by the maker, enter the date on which
the previously reported electioneering
communication was publicly distributed an additional time, provided that
costs related to the additional public
distribution have exceeded $10,000 or
the costs of the additional distribution
plus disbursements related to other
electioneering communications aired
since the last notice was filed have exceeded $10,000. For subsequent, new
electioneering communications, enter
the date on which the communication

was first aired whenever related and/or
aggregated costs exceed $10,000. See
the definitions above and under 11
CFR 104.20(a) of “Date of Public
Distribution” and “Direct Costs of
Producing or Airing Electioneering
Communications.”
b) Communication title. List the title
of the communication as named by
the media vendor or producer of the
communication. (Titles of individual
communications should remain the
same throughout their various public distributions unless the content
changes.)
LINE 6. Qualified Nonprofit Corporations. If the filer is a qualified nonprofit corporation as defined above
and under 11 CFR 114.10, check
“Yes.” Otherwise, check “No.”
LINE 7. Account for Donations. All
filers: Check “Yes” if the disbursements for the electioneering communication were made exclusively
from donations to a segregated bank
account that contains only funds donated by individuals who are United
States citizens, United States nationals or who are lawfully admitted for
permanent residence under 8 U.S.C.
§ 1101(a)(20), and that was set up
expressly under 11 CFR 114.14(d)(2)
for the purpose of financing electioneering communication(s). Otherwise,
check “No.”
LINE 8. Name of Custodian of
Records. Provide the requested information about the individual who
controls the books and records that
support this filing.
LINE 9. Total Donations This Statement. Provide the sum total of donations itemized on Schedule 9-A.
LINE 10. Total Disbursements/Obligations This Statement. Provide the
sum total of disbursements itemized
on Schedule 9-B.
LINE 11. List of Persons Sharing/Exercising Control. Provide the requested information for each person who
shared or exercised control of making
the disbursement/obligation for the
electioneering communication. This
6PG024

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 9 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

means officers, directors, executive directors or their equivalents, partners,
and, in the case of unincorporated
organizations, owners of the entity or
persons making disbursements for the
electioneering communication. The
senior staff position in an organization, whatever its title, that functions
as an executive director is the equivalent of an executive director.
Verification
FEC Form 9 must be signed by
the person making the electioneering communication, who is making a
verified certification under penalty of
perjury that the statement is correct
and, if the communications were made
by a corporation, that it is a qualified nonprofit corporation under the
Commission’s regulations.

6PG024

Instructions for
Schedule 9-A 	
(Donations Received)
Donations Made to Segregated Account. If the disbursements for the
electioneering communication were
made exclusively from donations to a
segregated bank account that contains
only funds donated by individuals
who are United States citizens, United
States nationals or who are lawfully
admitted for permanent residence
under 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(20), and that
was set up expressly under 11 CFR
114.14(d)(2) for the purpose of financing electioneering communication(s),
provide the requested information for
those donors who donated an amount
aggregating $1,000 or more since the
first day of the preceding calendar
year. 11 CFR 104.20(c)(7).
Donations Made to Non-Segregated
Account. If the disbursements/obligations for the communication were
made from an account that is not
segregated as described above, provide the requested information for
all donors who donated an amount
aggregating $1,000 or more since the
first day of the preceding calendar
year to the person or entity making
the disbursement.
After itemizing the donations, subtotal each Schedule 9-A. (You may
use multiple pages.) Add the subtotals
on the last page of Schedule 9-A, and
carry the total to Line 9 of Form 9.

Instructions
for Schedule 9-B
(Disbursement(s) Made
or Obligations)
For each disbursement made or
contract executed, including each
disbursement made or contract executed prior to exceeding the $10,000
threshold, provide the requested information. If the payee is an individual,
list that individual’s occupation and
employer. Additionally, list each
federal candidate clearly identified
in the communication, including the
office sought and the election that
the disbursement/obligation is made
for. Along with listing the specific
purpose of the disbursement (e.g.,
radio ad, television ad), list the title
of the communication as named by
the media vendor or producer of the
communication. (Titles of individual
communications should remain the
same throughout their various public distributions unless the content
changes.) Also list the communication
date for the electioneering communication. In most instances, this date
will be the Date of Public Distribution. If the maker of the electioneering communication is also required to
report disbursements related to other
electioneering communications (e.g.,
electioneering communications with
costs below the $10,000 threshold), the
disbursements listed on Schedule 9-B
must indicate the other electioneering
communication’s title in the purpose
line, the date the electioneering communication was publicly distributed
and the federal candidate that was
clearly identified in the communication.
After itemizing the disbursements/
obligations, subtotal each Schedule
9-B. (You may use multiple pages).
Add the subtotals on the last page of
Schedule 9-B, and carry the total to
Line 10 on Form 9.
This form may be duplicated.

Federal Election Commission (4/2006), Page 

