INSTRUCTIONS FOR POST-ELECTION DETAILED SUMMARY PAGE (FEC FORM 3)

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Post-Election Detailed Summary Page
(FEC FORM 3, Pages 5 – 8)
When to Use This Form
Use this form in lieu of pages 3 and 4
(Detailed Summary Page), and Line
Numbers 6-7 of page 2 (Summary Page)
for the first report filed after the completion of the election cycle. (The election
cycle for disclosure purposes begins the
day after the previous general election
for a seat or office, and ends on the day
of the next general election for that seat
or office. See 11 CFR 100.3(b).) Thus,
if the candidate participates in the general election, use this form for the 30day Post-General report. If the candidate does not participate in the general
election, but was a candidate in the justended election cycle, use this form for
the Year-end report covering the end of
the election year.
This form covers activity spanning
two election cycles. There are three
Columns of activity disclosed on the
report. The first column, Column A, is
used to report the total amount of receipts and disbursements for each category of activity during the reporting
period; these figures will include activity that occurred both before and after
the date of the general election. The second column, Column B, discloses the
aggregate election cycle-to-date totals
for each category of activity, incorporating information from the last report
filed. Finally, Column C is a subset of
Column A but only includes activity that
occurred after the date of the general
election.
If there are no receipts or disbursements for a particular category for a reporting period or election cycle, enter
“0.”
Instructions for Column A
Column A includes the total receipts
and disbursements for each category of
activity during the reporting period. Use
the appropriate Schedules A or B to list
each receipt or disbursement required to
be itemized. The total for each category
(“Total This Period” from Schedule A
REQ NUM

or Schedule B) should then be added to
the unitemized receipts or disbursements
for that category, and entered on the appropriate line of pages 5 – 8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary Page), in Column A.
Instructions for Column B
Fill in the date of the just-ended general election. To derive the totals for
Column B first separate the Column A
receipts and disbursements for each category by date—those that occurred
through the date of the general election,
and those that occurred after the date of
the general election. Column B will include those receipts and disbursements
received or made from the beginning of
the reporting period through the date of
the general election, added to the “Election Cycle-to-Date” figure from Column
B of pages 3 and 4 (the Detailed Summary Page) of the committee’s last report. Column B will then represent all
of the activity that occurred during the
just-ended election cycle up through the
date of the general election.
Instructions for Column C
Fill in the date of the day after the
just-ended general election (e.g., for the
2002 Post-General report, fill in “11/06/
02”). Fill in the last day of the reporting
period. To derive the total for each line,
include only those transactions included
in Column A that occurred during the
period beginning the day after the general election through the end of the reporting period. Column C will include
those receipts and disbursements received or made the day after the general
election and throughout the remainder
of the reporting period.
LINE 11(a). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
individuals, partnerships and other persons who are not political committees.
Include unitemized contributions and
those that are required to be itemized on
Schedule A. Each contribution made by

a person who has made one or more contributions during the election cycle aggregating in excess of $200 must be
itemized on Schedule A. The committee must provide the identification (full
name, mailing address, occupation and
name of employer) of the person, the
date and amount of each contribution
aggregating in excess of $200, the aggregate election cycle-to-date total and
whether the contribution is for a primary,
general, or other election.
LINE 11(b). Enter the total amount
of contributions (other than loans) from
political party committees on Line 11(b).
These contributions must be itemized on
Schedule A regardless of the amount.
For each contribution, provide the identification (full name and address) of the
committee, the date and amount of the
contribution, the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total and whether the contribution is for a primary, general or
other election.
LINE 11(c). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
other political committees on Line 11(c).
These contributions must be itemized on
Schedule A regardless of the amount.
For each contribution, include the aggregate election cycle-to-date total and
whether the contribution is for a primary,
general or other election. Do not abbreviate committee names.
LINE 11(d). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from the
candidate on Line 11(d). If the candidate makes one or more contributions
during the election cycle aggregating in
excess of $200, the committee must provide on Schedule A the identification of
the candidate (full name, mailing address, occupation and name of employer), the date and amount of each
contribution aggregating in excess of
$200, and the aggregate election cycleto-date totals. If the contribution is derived from funds that were loaned to the
candidate from a lending institution, or
from an advance from the candidate's

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/2003), Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR POST-ELECTION DETAILED SUMMARY PAGE (FEC FORM 3)

brokerage account, credit card or line of
credit, report the loan to the candidate
on Schedule C-1.
LINE 11(e). For Columns A, B and C,
add Lines 11(a), 11(b), 11(c) and 11(d)
to derive figures for Line 11(e).
LINE 12. Enter the total amount of
transfers from other authorized committees of the same candidate. Loans and
loan repayments received from other
authorized committees of the same candidate must be included on this line and
not on Line 13(b). These transfers must
be itemized on Schedule A, regardless
of the amount. For each transfer, provide the identification (full name and
mailing address) of the committee, the
date and amount of the transfer and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total.
LINE 13(a). Enter the total amount of
loans from the candidate (including any
loans to the committee guaranteed by the
candidate) to the committee on Line
13(a). This category includes loans
made to the committee by the candidate
from personal funds or from a bank loan
to the candidate or from an advance on
the candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit, or other
line of credit which are used for the purpose of influencing the candidate’s election for federal office. All loans from
the candidate (including any loans to the
committee guaranteed by the candidate)
to the committee must be itemized on
Schedule A, regardless of the amount.
For each loan, provide the candidate’s
identification (full name, mailing address, occupation and name of employer), the date and amount of the loan
and the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total (see also instructions for Schedule
C).
LINE 13(b). Enter the total amount of
all other loans received on Line 13(b).
This category includes all other types of
loans. These loans must be itemized on
Schedule A, regardless of the amount.
For each loan provide the identification
(full name, mailing address and, where
applicable, occupation and name of
employer) of the person making the loan,
the date and amount of the loan, the aggregate election cycle-to-date total and
whether the loan is for a primary, gen-

eral or other election. The committee
must also provide on Schedule C the
identification of any endorser or guarantor and the amount of the endorsement
or guarantee (see also instructions for
Schedule C).
LINE 13(c). For Columns A, B and C,
add Lines 13(a) and 13(b) to derive the
figures for Line 13(c).
LINE 14(a). Enter the total amount of
offsets to operating expenditures (including refunds, rebates and returns of
deposits) on Line 14(a). For each person who provides rebates, refunds and
other offsets to operating expenditures
aggregating in excess of $200 during the
election cycle, the committee must provide on Schedule A the identification of
the person, the date and amount of each
receipt aggregating in excess of $200
and the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total.
LINE 15. Enter the total amount of other
receipts (including dividends, interest
and repayments by persons of loans
made by the committee) on Line 15. For
each person who provides any dividends,
interest or other receipts aggregating in
excess of $200 during the election cycle,
the committee must provide on Schedule A the identification of the person,
the date and amount of each receipt aggregating in excess of $200 and the aggregate election cycle-to-date totals.
LINE 16. For Columns A, B and C, add
Lines 11(e), 12, 13(c), 14 and 15 to derive the figures for Line 16.
LINE 17. Enter the total amount of operating expenditures on Line 23. Examples of operating expenditures are:
media advertising, newspaper advertising, salaries, travel, rent and telephones.
For each person who receives payments
for operating expenditures aggregating
in excess of $200 during the election
cycle, the Committee must provide on
Schedule B the full name and mailing
address, date, amount and purpose of the
expenditure (see also instructions for
Schedule B).
LINE 18. Enter the total amount of
transfers to other authorized committees
of the same candidate on Line 18. These
transfers must be itemized on Schedule

Page 2, Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/2003)

B, regardless of the amount. For each
transfer, provide the full name and mailing address of the recipient committee,
date and amount, and state that the purpose of the disbursement is a “transfer.”
LINE 19(a). Enter the total amount of
loan repayments of loans from the candidate (including any loans to the committee guaranteed by the candidate) to
his or her authorized committee on Line
19(a) including loans derived from a
bank loan to the candidate or from an
advance on the candidate’s brokerage
account, credit card, home equity line
of credit, or other lines of credit. All
loan repayments must be itemized on
Schedule B, regardless of the amount.
For each person who receives a loan repayment, provide the full name, mailing address, date and amount, and state
that the purpose of the disbursement is
a “loan repayment” (see also instructions
for Schedule C).
LINE 19(b). Enter the total amount of
loan repayments of all other loans on
Line 19(b). (See instructions for Line
19(a) for other reporting requirements.)
LINE 19(c). For Columns A, B and C,
add Lines 19(a) and 19(b) to derive the
figures for Line 19(c).
LINE 20(a). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to individuals/persons other than political committees on
Line 20(a). For each person who receives a refund of a contribution which
was previously itemized on Schedule A,
the committee must provide on Schedule B the full name, mailing address,
date and amount, and state that the purpose of the disbursement is a “contribution refund.”
LINE 20(b). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to political party
committees on Line 20(b). All such refunds must be itemized on Schedule B,
regardless of the amount. For each contribution refund, provide the full name,
mailing address, date and amount, and
state that the purpose of the disbursement is a “contribution refund.”
LINE 20(c). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to other political
committees on Line 20(c). (See instructions for Line 20(b) for other reporting
requirements.)
REQ NUM

INSTRUCTIONS FOR POST-ELECTION DETAILED SUMMARY PAGE (FEC FORM 3)

LINE 20(d). For Columns A, B and C,
add Lines 20(a), 20(b) and 20(c) to derive the figures for Line 20(d).
LINE 21. Enter the total amount of other
disbursements on Line 21. For each
person
who
receives
any
disbursement(s) not otherwise disclosed
that aggregate(s) in excess of $200 during the election cycle, the committee
must provide the full name and address
of each such person, together with the
date, amount and purpose of any such
disbursement.

LINE 26. Transfer the amount from
Column A of Line 22 to Line 26.
LINE 27. Subtract Line 26 from Line
25 to derive cash on hand at the close of
the reporting period for Line 27.

LINE 22. For Columns A, B and C, add
the totals on Lines 17, 18, 19(c), 20(d)
and 21 to derive the figures for Line 22.
Instructions for Part III
For this report only, substitute Part III
of page 8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary Page) in lieu of Line 6 of page 2
(Summary Page). Do not complete Line
6 of the Summary Page for this report.
To derive the Columns A, B and C totals for Part III, subtract the totals listed
above in Line 20(d) from the totals listed
for Line 11(e).
Instructions for Part IV
For this report only, substitute Part IV
of page 8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary Page) in lieu of Line 7 of page 2
(Summary Page). Do not complete Line
7 of the Summary Page for this report.
To derive the Columns A, B and C totals for Part IV, subtract the totals listed
above in Line 14 from the totals listed
in Line 17.
Instructions for Part V
LINE 23. Enter the total amount of cash
on hand at the beginning of the reporting period. This amount includes: currency; balance on deposit in banks; savings and loans institutions and other depository institutions; traveler’s checks
owned by the committee; certificates of
deposit; treasury bills and other committee investments valued at cost.
LINE 24. Transfer the amount from
Column A of Line 16 to Line 24.
LINE 25. Add Lines 23 and 24 to derive the figure for Line 25.
REQ NUM

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/2003), Page 3

