REPORT OF COMMUNICATION COSTS
BY CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
2. IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (Assigned by FEC)

1. (a) NAME OF ORGANIZATION

3. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check Appropriate Box)

(b) ADDRESS (Number and Street)

Corporation
(c) CITY, STATE AND ZIP CODE

4. TYPE OF REPORT (Check One):
(a)
April 15 Quarterly Report

July 15 Quarterly Report

12 Day Pre-General Election Report held on

Trade Association

Labor Organization

Cooperative

Membership Organization

Corporation without
capital stock

October 15 Quarterly Report
in the State of

(date)

.

January 31 Year End Report
(b) Is this Report an Amendment?

YES

NO

5. THIS REPORT COVERS THE PERIOD

THROUGH

SUMMARY OF COMMUNICATION COSTS
Type of
Communication

Class or Category
Communicated
With

Direct Mail

Executive/
Administrative
Personnel

Date(s) of
Communication

Check One
Support

Oppose

Identify Candidate, Office Sought,
District and State, and Whether for
Primary or General Election

Cost of Communication
(Per Candidate)

Telephone
Stockholders
Telegram
Members
Other:
(Specify)

Direct Mail

Executive/
Administrative
Personnel

Telephone
Stockholders
Telegram
Members
Other:
(Specify)

(NOTE: For additional communications, attach separate sheets containing the same information as above.)
TOTAL COMMUNICATION COSTS FOR THIS PERIOD

$

I certify that I have examined this report and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, it is true, correct and complete.

Type or Print Name

Signature and Title of Person Designated to Sign This Report

Date

NOTE: Submission of false, erroneous, or incomplete information may subject the person signing this report to penalties of 2 U.S.C. §437g.

WHERE TO FILE:
Federal Election Commission
999 E Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20463
FE1AN069.PDF

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Federal Election Commission
Toll Free: 800-424-9530
Local: 202-694-1100
FEC FORM 7 (2/2001)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 7

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Report of Communication Costs By Corporations and
Membership Organizations (FEC FORM 7)
2 U.S.C. 441b allows “communications by a corporation to its stockholders and executive or administrative personnel and their families or by a labor
organization to its members and their
families on any subject,” including the
express advocacy of the election or defeat of any Federal candidate. Further, 2
U.S.C. 431(9)(B)(iii) requires that the
costs of such communications be reported to the Federal Election Commission under certain circumstances. This
section states in pertinent part:
“…the costs incurred by a membership organization (including a labor organization) or by a corporation directly
attributable to a communication expressly advocating the election or defeat
of a clearly identified candidate (other
than a communication primarily devoted
to subjects other than the express advocacy of the election or defeat of a clearly
identified candidate), shall, if those costs
exceed $2,000 per election, be reported
to the Commission.”
For the purpose of interpreting these
provisions of law, the Commission’s
regulations provide the following definitions:
(i) “Labor organization” means an organization of any kind (any local, national, or international union, or any local or State central body of a federation
of unions is each considered a separate
labor organization for purposes of this
section) or any agency or employee representative committee or plan, in which
employees participate and which exists
for the purpose, in whole or in part, of
dealing with employers concerning
grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates
of pay, hours of employment or conditions of work.
(ii) “Stockholder” means a person
who has a vested beneficial interest in
stock, has the power to direct how that
stock shall be voted, if it is voting stock,
and has the right to receive dividends.

FE1AN070.PDF

(iii) “Executive or administrative personnel” means individuals employed by
a corporation who are paid on a salary
rather than hourly basis and who have
policy-making, managerial, professional
or supervisory responsibilities.
(iv) “Members” means all persons
who are currently satisfying the requirements for membership in a membership
organization, trade association, cooperative or corporation without capital stock
and in the case of the labor organization, persons who are currently satisfying the requirements for membership in
a local, national or international labor
organization. Members of a local union
are considered to be members of any national or international union of which the
local union is a part and of any federation with which the local, national or
international union is affiliated. A person is not considered a member under
this definition if the only requirement
for membership is a contribution to a
separate segregated fund.
(v) “Election” means two separate
processes in a calendar year, to each of
which the $2,000 threshold described
above applies separately. The first process is comprised of all primary elections for Federal office, wherever and
whenever held; the second process is
comprised of all general elections for
Federal office, wherever and whenever
held. The term “election” also includes
each special election held to fill a vacancy in a Federal office or each runoff election.
(vi) “Corporation” means any separately incorporated entity, whether or not
affiliated.
WHO MUST FILE
Every membership organization (including a labor organization) or corporation which makes disbursements for
communications pursuant to 11 CFR
100.8(b)(4) and 114.3 of the
Commission’s regulations shall report to

the Federal Election Commission, 999
E Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20463
on FEC FORM 7 such costs which are
directly attributable to any communication expressly advocating the election or
defeat of a clearly identified candidate
(other than a communication primarily
devoted to subjects other than the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate), if such costs exceed $2,000 for
any election.
WHAT MUST BE REPORTED
Each report filed under 11 CFR 104.6
of the Commission’s regulations must
include, for each communication:
(1) The type of communication
(such as direct mail, telephone or telegram);
(2) The class or category communicated with (Executive/Administrative
Personnel, Stockholders, Members);
(3) The date(s) of the communication;
(4) Whether the communication
was in support of, or in opposition to, a
particular candidate;
(5) The name of the candidate, the
office sought (and the district and state
of the office, if applicable), and whether
the communication was for the primary
or general election; and
(6) The cost of the communication.
Generally, the total cost of a communication which advocates the election or
defeat of more than one candidate should
be allocated to and reported for each
candidate in equal proportions. If, however, one or more candidates are emphasized, the cost should be allocated and
reported to reflect the benefit reasonably
expected to be derived by each candidate.
WHEN TO REPORT
Organizations required to report under 11 CFR 104.6(a) of the
Commission’s regulations must file such
reports during a calendar year in which

Federal Election Commission (Revised 2/2001), Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 7

a regularly scheduled general election
is held. Such reports must be filed quarterly and, with respect to any general
election, a 12 Day Pre-General Election
Report must also be filed. The organization is required to file reports beginning with the first reporting period during which the aggregate cost for such
communications exceeds $2,000 per
election as defined in 11 CFR
104.6(a)(1) of the Commission’s regulations, and for each period thereafter in
which the organization makes additional
disbursements in connection with the
same election.
— Quarterly reports must be filed no
later than April 15, July 15, October 15
and January 31 of the following calendar year. Each such report must disclose
all transactions from the last report filed
through the last day of the calendar quarter.
— A 12 Day Pre-General Election
Report must be filed no later than the
12th day before the general election and
must include all transactions from the
closing date of the last report filed
through the 20th day before the election.
A 12 Day Pre-General Election Report
sent by certified or registered mail must
be mailed no later than the 15th day before the election.
A document is timely filed upon delivery to the Federal Election Commission by the close of the prescribed filing date or upon deposit as registered or
certified mail in an established U.S. Post
Office postmarked no later than midnight of the day the report is due, except
that the 12 Day Pre-General Election
Report so mailed must be postmarked
no later than midnight of the 15th day
before the date of the election. Reports
sent by first class mail must be received
by the Federal Election Commission by
the close of business of the prescribed
filing date to be timely filed.

Page 2, Federal Election Commission (Revised 2/2001)

FE1AN070.PDF

