INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 1 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Statement of Organization (FEC FORM 1)

When to File
New political committees must file
this form to register the committee
once they exceed the applicable threshold, as described below:
•Principal campaign committees
must file this form no later than 10
days after the candidate designates
the committee on the Statement of
Candidacy (FEC FORM 2). Other
authorized committees file this form
with the principal campaign committee, which in turn must file this form
with the appropriate filing offices.
•Committees sponsored by corporations, labor organizations or trade
associations (i.e., separate segregated
funds) must file this form no later
than 10 days after their establishment.
•Local political party committees
must file this form no later than 10
days after exceeding one of the following thresholds during a calendar
year: (1) receiving contributions in
connection with a federal election
aggregating in excess of $5,000; (2)
making exempt payments under 11
CFR 100.80, 100.87, 100.89, 100.140,
100.147 or 100.149 aggregating
in excess of $5,000; or (3) making
contributions or expenditures in
connection with a federal election
aggregating in excess of $1,000.
•All other political committees must
file this form no later than 10 days
after receiving contributions or making expenditures in connection with a
federal election aggregating in excess
of $1,000 during a calendar year.
Note: Political committees (except
for committees required to file with
the Secretary of the Senate) must file
reports in an electronic form under
11 CFR 104.18 if they have either
received contributions or made expenditures in excess of $50,000 during a
calendar year, or if they have reason to
expect that they will exceed either of
those thresholds during the calendar
9-00070

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

year. If your committee has reached
this level of activity, you must file this
form in an electronic format.
A political committee is considered
to have reason to expect it will exceed
the electronic filing threshold for the
next two calendar years after the calendar year in which it exceeds $50,000
in contributions or expenditures.
Exception: This does not apply to an
authorized committee with $50,000
or less in net debts outstanding on
January 1 of the year following the
general election that anticipates terminating prior to January 1 of the next
election year, as long as the candidate
has not qualified under 2 U.S.C. §432
as a candidate in the next election and
does not intend to become a federal
candidate in the next election.
A new committee with no previous contributions or expenditures is
considered to have reason to expect
it will exceed the electronic filing
threshold if it exceeds $12,500 in contributions or expenditures during the
first calendar quarter of the calendar
year, or $25,000 in contributions or
expenditures in the first half of the
calendar year.
Contact the FEC for more information on filing electronically.
Line-by-Line Instructions
LINE 1. Print or type full name and
mailing address of the committee. The
name of a principal campaign committee or other authorized committee
must include the name of the candidate who authorized the committee.
A political committee which is not an
authorized committee can not include
the name of any candidate in its name,
except that a delegate committee must
include the word “delegate(s)” in its
name and may also include the name
of the Presidential candidate which it
supports. A political committee established solely to draft an individual or

to encourage an individual to become
a candidate may include the name
of the individual in the name of the
committee, provided the committee’s
name clearly indicates that it is a draft
committee. The name of a separate
segregated fund must include the full
name of its connected organization.
Any abbreviation or acronym used
by the fund must also be reported.
Finally, list the committee’s electronic
mail address and the Internet address
(URL) of the committee’s official Web
site, if such a Web site exists.
LINE 2. State the date the group
or organization became a political
committee. If this filing is an amendment, note the date of the change in
information.
LINE 3. Only committees that have
previously filed a Statement of Organization should fill in this block
with the number that was originally
assigned to the committee. All new
committees will be assigned identification numbers when the completed
statement has been received.
LINE 4. All political committees registering for the first time check the box
labeled “NEW.” Committees that have
previously filed FEC FORM 1 and are
now submitting changes or corrections
check the box labeled “AMENDED.”
If “AMENDED” is checked, complete
Lines 1 through 4. With respect to
Lines 5 – 9 include only the change(s)
in information previously submitted.
Committees are reminded that any
change or correction in the information previously filed in the Statement
of Organization shall be reported no
later than 10 days following the date of
the change or correction. Committees
that are required to file electronically
are also required to file amendments
to the Statement of Organization in
an electronic format.
Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 1 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

LINE 5. Check and fill out ONE of
the eight sections as follows:
(a) All principal campaign committees check (a) and fill in the corresponding information for the
candidate under (b).
(b) All other authorized committees
check (b) and fill in the corresponding information for the
candidate. In the boxes for candidate/party affiliation, list the
abbreviation of the party (e.g., for
Democratic party, list “DEM,”
for Republican party, list “REP,”
for Reform party, list “REF,” for
Green party, list “GRE” or for
Independent, list “IND.”) Consult the Commission’s Web site
at www.fec.gov if unsure of the
proper abbreviation to use.
(c) A committee supporting/opposing a single federal candidate
which is not authorized by a
candidate checks (c), and includes
the candidate’s name on the line
provided. Delegate and draft
committees must check (c), and
provide the name of the candidate
supported.
(d) All national, State and subordinate
committees of a political party
check (d) and fill in whether the
party is the national party (use
code NAT), state party (use code
STA) or subordinate committee
(use code SUB). In the boxes for
candidate/party affiliation, list the
abbreviation of the party (e.g., for
Democratic party, list “DEM,”
for Republican party, list “REP,”
for Reform party, list “REF,” for
Green party, list “GRE” or for
Independent, list “IND.”) Consult the Commission’s Web site
at www.fec.gov if unsure of the
proper abbreviation to use.
(e) All separate segregated funds
check (e). A separate segregated
fund is a political committee established, financed, maintained
or controlled by a corporation,
labor organization, membership
organization, cooperative or trade
association. Check the appropriate box to identify the type of connected organization and provide
Page 2

its name and address on line 6. If
a lobbyist/registrant established
or controls the committee, check
the Lobbyist/Registrant PAC box.
See 2 U.S.C. 434(i)(7) and 11 CFR
104.22(a)(2), (3) and (4).
(f) A committee supporting/opposing
more than one federal candidate
and which is not a separate segregated fund or a political party
committee (i.e., a nonconnected
committee) checks box (f). If a
lobbyist/registrant established or
controls the committee, check the
Lobbyist/Registrant PAC box. See
2 U.S.C. 434(i)(7) and 11 CFR
104.22(a)(2), (3) and (4). In addition, if the committee is directly
or indirectly established, financed,
maintained or controlled by a
federal candidate or officeholder,
but is not an authorized committee or party, it must check the
Leadership PAC box and identify
its sponsor on line 6.
(g), (h) All joint fundraising representatives must check either (g) or (h).
A committee established to act as
a joint fundraising representative
is a political committee selected
or established by joint fundraising participants as the committee responsible for keeping joint
fundraising records, allocating
proceeds and expenses among
participants and reporting the
overall financial activity of the
fundraiser. If one or more federal
candidates are participating in the
joint fundraiser, check (g). If not,
check (h). List the participating
committees and their FEC identifications numbers in the space
provided. NOTE: If a participating committee serves as the joint
fundraising representative, it must
check (g) or (h) in addition to the
appropriate box above (a-f).
LINE 6. Political committees must list
all affiliated committees and connected organizations (defined below) as
follows. Do not leave this line blank.
If there are no affiliated committees
as described below, enter “None” on
this line. Examples of affiliated committees include:

•Principal campaign committees list
all other committees authorized by
the same candidate. Under “Relationship,” enter “affiliated.”
•Political committees authorized by
the same candidate (other than the
principal campaign committee) list
the principal campaign committee
authorized by the same candidate.
Under “Relationship,” enter “affiliated.”
•Political committees which have been
established, financed, maintained or
controlled by the highest level parent
organization (i.e., the corporation,
labor organization, membership
organization, cooperative or trade
association) list:
•The name of the parent organization.
Under “Relationship,” enter “connected” AND
•The name of any other political
committee(s) established, financed,
maintained or controlled by the same
parent organization or by a subsidiary, branch or State, local, or other
subordinate unit of the same parent
organization. Under “Relationship,”
enter “affiliated.”
Political committees which have been
established, financed, maintained or
controlled by a subsidiary, branch or
State, local, or other subordinate unit
of an organization list:
•The name of the subsidiary, branch
or State, local, or other subordinate
unit and the name of the parent
organization of which it is a part.
Under “Relationship,” enter “connected” AND
•The name of the highest level political
committee sponsored by the parent
organization. Under “Relationship,”
enter “affiliated.”
•State party committees list any subordinate committees (i.e., any county,
district or local committee) under the
control or direction of the State committee. Under “Relationship,” enter
“affiliated.” (See 11 CFR 110.3(b).)
•Subordinate State party committees
list the State party committee. Under
“Relationship,” enter “affiliated.”
(See 11 CFR 110.3(b).)
•Joint fundraising participants list
the committee established to act as
Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00070

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 1 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

the joint fundraising representative.
Under “Relationship,” enter “joint
fundraising representative.”
Leadership PACs (as defined in item
5(f) above) must identify their sponsoring candidate or officeholder,
but should not list that candidate’s
campaign committee as an affiliated
committee.
Separate segregated funds must provide the full name and address of
their “connected organization.” Note:
The term “connected organization”
means any organization which is not a
political committee but which directly
or indirectly establishes, administers
or financially supports a political
committee. A connected organization may be a corporation (including
a corporation without capital stock),
a labor organization, a membership
organization, a cooperative or a trade
association. The definition of “affiliated committee” is contained at 11
CFR 100.5(g).
LINE 7. Enter the name, address
and committee position or the title of
custodian of the committee’s books
and records on Line 7. The telephone
number is optional, but is helpful in
expeditiously resolving potential filing
problems. If the treasurer is the custodian of records, the term “treasurer”
is sufficient for Line 7.
LINE 8. Enter the name and address
of the committee’s treasurer on Line
8. The name and address of any designated agent (e.g., assistant treasurer)
must also be included on Line 8. Every
political committee must have a treasurer and may designate an assistant
treasurer who shall assume the duties
and responsibilities of the treasurer, in
the event the treasurer is unavailable.
The Commission recommends that
each political committee designate an
assistant treasurer because no contribution or expenditure may be accepted
or made by or on behalf of a political
committee at a time when there is a
vacancy in the office of the treasurer.
No expenditure may be made for or on
behalf of a political committee without the authorization of its treasurer
9-00070

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

or another agent authorized orally or
in writing by the treasurer.
LINE 9. The committee must provide
the name and mailing address of any
bank, repository, or depository where
the committee holds funds. Each political committee must have a checking
account or transaction account at one
of its depositories. All receipts of a
political committee must be deposited
into a designated campaign depository. All disbursements must be made
by check or similar drafts drawn on
an account at a designated campaign
depository, except for expenditures of
$100 or less made from a petty cash
fund.
Submit any additional information
required for any Line on separate continuation sheets appropriately labeled
and attached to the Statement of Organization. Indicate in the appropriate
section when information is continued
on separate page(s).
Treasurer’s Responsibilities
The treasurer of the political committee must preserve a copy of the
Statement of Organization and each
amendment for a period of not less
than 3 years after the date of filing.
The treasurer of the political committee is personally responsible for
the timely and complete filing of this
Statement and for the accuracy of any
information contained in it.
Where to File
The original Statement of Organization (FEC FORM 1) and all
amendments must be filed with the
appropriate office as follows:
•The principal campaign committee
of a candidate for the House of Representatives and political committees which support or oppose only
candidates for the House file with
the Federal Election Commission,
999 E Street, N.W., Washington,
DC 20463.
•The principal campaign committee of
a candidate for the Senate and political committees which support or oppose only candidates for the Senate

file with the Secretary of the Senate,
Office of Public Records, 232 Hart
Senate Office Building, Washington,
DC 20510-7116. Mail addressed to
the Secretary of the Senate should
read: “Office of Public Records, P.O.
Box 77578, Washington, DC 200137578. ”
•An authorized committee which is
not the principal campaign committee of a candidate files with the
principal campaign committee which
must forward a copy to the appropriate office listed herein.
•All other committees, including the
principal campaign committee of
a candidate for the office of President or Vice President, file with the
Federal Election Commission, 999
E Street, N.W., Washington, DC
20463.
Principal campaign committees of
House and Senate candidates must
file a copy of this form with the state
in which the office is sought, with the
exception of committees of candidates
in states that have qualified for the
Commission’s state filing waiver program. Principal campaign committees
of Presidential candidates must file
a copy of this form in each state in
which they have made expenditures,
with the exception of those states that
have qualified for the Commission’s
state filing waiver program. A list of
qualified states is available from the
Federal Election Commission.
Unauthorized political committees
must continue to file copies of this
form with the states in which they have
their headquarters, with the exception of committees that are located in
states that have qualified for the state
waiver program.
The Treasurer must sign the Statement of Organization.

Page 3

