INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Report of Receipts and Disbursements for an Authorized Committee
(FEC FORM 3)
Use FEC FORM 3 to file your
report. Listed below are the summary
pages and schedules of FEC FORM
3 with an explanation of what each
discloses. These forms may be duplicated.
FEC FORM 3: Page 1, Report of
Receipts and Disbursements
Identifies the committee, the type of
report and the reporting period.
FEC FORM 3: Page 2, Summary
Page
Discloses the committee’s total
receipts and disbursements for the
reporting period and the election
cycle-to-date. Note: If candidate
sought election this year, when filing
30-day Post-General report (or Yearend report for candidates who did not
participate in the general election),
substitute pages 5 – 8 (Post-Election
Detailed Summary Page) for Lines
6 – 7 of page 2 (Summary Page).
FEC FORM 3: Pages 3 – 4,
Detailed Summary Page
Summarizes receipts and disbursements by type of activity; shows
reporting period and election cycleto-date totals for each type of activity.
Note: If candidate sought election this
year, when filing 30-day Post-General
report (or Year-end report for candidates who did not participate in the
general election) substitute pages 5 – 8
(Post-Election Detailed Summary
Page) for all of pages 3 – 4 (Detailed
Summary Page).
FEC FORM 3: Schedules
A: Provides detailed information
for each receipt that is required
to be itemized. Use a separate
Schedule A to support each
line number that appears on the
Detailed Summary Page.
B: Provides detailed information
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

for each disbursement that is
required to be itemized. Use a
separate Schedule B to support
each line number that appears on
the Detailed Summary Page.

computerized format before the report
is filed. Submit sample formats to the
Reports Analysis Division.

C: Shows all loans, endorsements
and loan guarantees the committee receives or makes.

Faxing Forms
Form 3 may not be filed by FAX
because an original signature is
required.

C-1: Shows all loans and lines of credit
made by lending institutions
either to the committee or to the
candidate which are used for the
purpose of influencing the candidate’s election to federal office.

Other Forms and Their Uses
The forms listed below are also
available. When ordering, please order
by form number.

D: Shows debts and obligations
owed to or by the committee that
are required to be disclosed.
3Z: Consolidates the financial activity
of other committees authorized
by the candidate for the same
campaign.
Illegible and Non-FEC Forms
Illegible reports and reports submitted on non-FEC forms are not
acceptable and must be refiled.
Electronic Filing
Political committees (except for
principal campaign committees of
Senate candidates) must file reports in
an electronic format if they have either
received contributions or made expenditures in excess of $50,000 during the
calendar year, or if they have reason
to expect that they will exceed either
of those thresholds. If the committee has reached this level of activity,
DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON
PAPER. Instead, you must file this
form in an electronic format. See the
instructions for more information on
filing electronically.
Computerized Format
FEC FORM 3 may be filed by
paper filers in a computerized format,
but the Commission must approve the

FEC FORM 3: Pages 5 – 8,
Post-Election Detailed Summary
Page.
Used only for last reporting period
of election cycle, in lieu of pages
3 – 4 (Detailed Summary Page) and
portions of page 2 (Summary Page).
Summarizes receipts and disbursements by type of activity; shows totals
for each type of activity for the reporting period and for both the election
cycle that ended on election day and
the new election cycle that began the
day after election day.
FEC FORM 1: Statement of
Organization
Used by all political committees
to register under the federal election
law.
FEC FORM 2: Statement of
Candidacy
Used by federal candidates to register their candidacy with the Federal
Election Commission or the Secretary
of the Senate.
FEC FORM 6
Discloses last-minute contributions
of $1,000 or more received between
the 20th day and 48 hours before the
day of an election.
Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

FEC FORM 8: Debt Settlement
Plan
Used by terminating committees
to disclose the terms of debt settlements.
To request additional forms, call the
Information Division at 800/424-9530
or 202/694-1100 or visit the FEC’s web
site at www.fec.gov.

Page 2

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SUMMARY PAGE
(FEC FORM 3, PAGES 1 – 2)
Who Must File
A political committee designated
in writing by a candidate for the
House of Representatives or Senate
to serve as his or her principal campaign committee is required to file
periodic Reports of Receipts and
Disbursements on FEC FORM 3.
Any other political committee
authorized in writing by a candidate
for the House of Representatives
or Senate to receive contributions
or make expenditures on the candidate’s behalf is required to file FEC
FORM 3 with the principal campaign
committee. The principal campaign
committee must compile and consolidate the reports required to be filed
with it. These consolidated reports
must include: the candidate’s activity,
reports submitted to the principal
campaign committee by any other
authorized committees, and the
principal campaign committee’s own
activity. This consolidation must be
made on FEC FORM 3Z.
Note: Political committees (except
for principal campaign committees of
Senate candidates) must file reports
in an electronic format if they have
either received contributions or made
expenditures in excess of $50,000
during a calendar year, or if they have
reason to expect that they will exceed
either of those thresholds during
the calendar year. If the committee has reached this level of activity,
DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON
PAPER. Instead, you must file this
form in an electronic format.
An authorized committee is considered to have reason to expect it will
exceed the electronic filing threshold
for the following two calendar years
after the calendar year in which it
exceeds $50,000 in contributions or
expenditures. Exception: This does
not apply to an authorized committee with $50,000 or less in net debts
outstanding on January 1 of the year
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

following the general election that
anticipates terminating prior to January 1 of the next election year, as long
as the candidate has not qualified as
a candidate in the next election and
does not intend to become a federal
candidate in the next election.
A new authorized committee with
no previous contributions or expenditures is considered to have reason
to expect it will exceed the electronic
filing threshold if it exceeds $12,500
in contributions or expenditures
during the first quarter of the calendar year, or $25,000 in contributions
or expenditures in the first half of the
calendar year.
Contact the FEC for more information on filing electronically.
ALL POLITICAL COMMITTEES
AUTHORIZED IN WRITING
BY A CANDIDATE FOR THE
OFFICE OF PRESIDENT OR
VICE PRESIDENT MUST FILE
ON FEC FORM 3P.
ALL POLITICAL COMMITTEES
OTHER THAN THOSE
AUTHORIZED BY A
CANDIDATE MUST FILE ON
FEC FORM 3X.
When to File
In any calendar year in which there
is a “regular” November general
election for which the candidate is
seeking nomination for election or
election, the candidate’s principal
campaign committee must file the following reports on FEC FORM 3:
•Quarterly reports must be filed no
later than April 15, July 15, October
15 and January 31 of the following
calendar year. Each such report
must disclose all transactions from
the last report filed through the last
day of the calendar quarter. A quarterly report is not required to be filed
if a Pre-Election Report is required
to be filed during the period beginning on the 5th day and ending on
the 15th day after the close of the
calendar quarter.

•A 12-Day Pre-Election Report must
be filed no later than the 12th day
before any primary or general election in which the candidate seeks
election and must include all transactions from the closing date of the
last report filed through the 20th day
before the election. A 12-Day PreElection Report sent by certified or
registered mail must be mailed no
later than the 15th day before the
election.
•A 30-Day Post-General Election
Report must be filed no later than
30 days after the general election
and include transactions from the
closing date of the last report filed
through the 20th day after the general election.
In any other calendar year, quarterly reports must be filed no later
than April 15, July 15, October 15, and
January 31 of the following calendar
year. Each such report must disclose
all transactions from the last report
filed through the last day of the calendar quarter.
A document is timely filed upon
delivery to the appropriate office (see
“Where to File”) by the close of the
prescribed filing date or upon deposit
as registered or certified mail in an
established U.S. Post Office and postmarked no later than midnight of the
day the report is due, except that a
Pre-Election Report so mailed must
be postmarked no later than midnight
of the 15th day before the date of the
election. Reports and statements sent
by first class mail must be received
by the appropriate office by the close
of business of the prescribed filing
date to be timely filed. Reports filed
electronically must be received and
validated by the Commission’s computer system on or before 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard/Daylight Savings
Time on the prescribed filing date in
order to be timely filed.
Where to File
An original report and any amendments to an original report must be
filed as follows:

Page 3

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

•The principal campaign committee
of a candidate for the House of
Representatives must file with the
Federal Election Commission, 999 E
Street, NW, Washington DC 20463.
Other authorized committees of the
candidate must file with the principal
campaign committee.
•The principal campaign committee
of a candidate for the Senate must
file with the Secretary of the Senate,
Office of Public Records, 232 Hart
Senate Office Building, Washington,
DC 20510-7116. Mail addressed to
the Secretary of the Senate should
read: “Office of Public Records, P.O.
Box 77578, Washington, DC 200137578.” Other authorized committees
of the candidate must file with the
principal campaign committee.
A copy of each report filed by the
principal campaign committee must
be filed with the Secretary of State
(or appropriate State officer) of the
State in which nomination or election is sought. Exception: Principal
campaign committees of House and
Senate candidates must file a copy of
this form with the state in which the
office is sought, with the exception of
committees of candidates in states that
have qualified for the Commission’s
state filing waiver. A list of qualified
states is available from the Federal
Election Commission.
Report Preparation
•A political committee may use any
recordkeeping or accounting system
which will enable it to comply with
the Act.

filled out first so that the totals can
be derived for each category.
•The total figures should be carried
forward to pages 3 – 4 (Detailed
Summary Page) and then (where
appropriate) from the Detailed
Summary Page to page 2 (Summary
Page).
• Pages 3 and 4 (Detailed Summary
Page) should be filled out before completing page 2 (Summary Page).
Treasurer’s Responsibilities
A copy of this Report must be preserved by the treasurer of the political
committee for a period of not less than
three years from the date of filing. The
treasurer of the political committee is
personally responsible for the timely
and complete filing of the report and
for the accuracy of any information
contained in it.
Election Cycle Reporting
Authorized committees must report
receipts and disbursements on an
election-cycle basis, rather than on a
calendar year basis. The election cycle
for disclosure purposes begins the day
after the previous general election for
a seat or office, and ends on the day
of the next general election for that
seat or office. Note that the length of
the election cycle varies depending on
office sought (i.e., two years for House
committees and six years for Senate
committees). See 11 CFR 100.3(b).
Note that on the first report filed
after your general election, receipts
received and disbursements made after
the date of the general election are
considered to be for the next election
cycle and must be aggregated separately for purposes of itemization.

check the “NEW” box. If this is an
amendment to a previous report,
check the “AMENDED” box.
LINE 4. Check the appropriate boxes.
If the report is a 12-Day Pre-Election
or 30-Day Post-General Election
Report, supply the type of election
(primary, general, convention, special
or run-off), the date of the election,
and the State in which the election
is held.
LINE 5. Enter the coverage dates
(month/day/year) for this report. All
activity from the ending coverage
date of the last report filed must be
included.
LINE 6(a). Transfer the amounts
from Column A and Column B of
Line 11(e) of the Detailed Summary
Page to the corresponding columns
on Line 6(a).
LINE 6(b). Transfer the amounts
from Column A and Column B of
Line 20(d) of the Detailed Summary
Page to the corresponding columns
on Line 6(b).
LINE 6(c). For both Column A and
Column B, subtract Line 6(b) from
6(a) to derive the figures for 6(c).
LINE 7(a). Transfer the amounts
from Column A and Column B of
Line 17 of the Detailed Summary
Page to the corresponding columns
on Line 7(a).
LINE 7(b). Transfer the amounts
from Column A and Column B of
Line 14 of the Detailed Summary
Page to the corresponding columns
on Line 7(b).

•The Commission recommends that
political committees use a recordkeeping or accounting system that
keeps a separate accounting for each
of the various categories of receipts
and disbursements on the Detailed
Summary Page. This separate
accounting will help the political
committee fill out the reporting
forms, since separate reporting
schedules are required for each category.

LINE 2. Enter the FEC Identification
Number assigned to the committee.

LINE 9. Transfer the total amount
of debts and obligations owed TO the
committee from Schedule C or D.

•The reporting schedules should be

LINE 3. If this is an original report,

LINE 10. Transfer the total amount

Page 4

Line-by-Line Instructions for
Page 2 (Summary Page)
LINE 1. Enter the complete name
and mailing address of your committee.

LINE 7(c). For both Column A and
Column B subtract Line 7(b) from 7(a)
to derive the figures for Line 7(c).
LINE 8. Transfer the total amount
of cash on hand at the close of the
reporting period from Line 27 of the
Detailed Summary Page to Line 8.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/12)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

of debts and obligations owed BY the
committee from Schedule C or D.
Special Instructions for Last
Report Filed for Your Election
Cycle
For this report ONLY, principal
campaign committees must fill out
Parts III and IV on page 8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary Page) in lieu
of filling out Lines 6-7 on page 2 (Summary Page). Note: Committees must
also fill out the Post-Election Detailed
Summary Page in lieu of pages 3 and
4 (Detailed Summary Page) for this
report only. This requirement applies
to the Post-General report filed by
general election candidates or to the
year-end report filed by all other candidates in that election cycle.

9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

Page 5

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
DETAILED SUMMARY PAGE
(FEC FORM 3, PAGES 3 – 4)
An authorized committee must
report the total amount of receipts
and disbursements during the reporting period and during the election
cycle for each category of receipts
and disbursements on pages 3 and
4 (Detailed Summary Page) of FEC
FORM 3. The committee’s full name
and the coverage dates for the report
must be entered in the appropriate
blocks. If there are no receipts or disbursements for a particular category
for a reporting period or election cycle
enter “0”.
To derive the “election cycle-todate” figure for each category, the
political committee should add the
“election cycle-to-date” total from
the previous report to the “Total This
Period” from Column A for the current report. For the first report filed
for an election cycle, the “election
cycle-to-date” figure is equal to the
“Total This Period” figure.
LINE 11(a)(i). Enter the total amount
of contributions (other than loans)
from individuals, partnerships and
other persons who are not political
committees that are required to be
itemized on Schedule A. For each
such person who has made one or
more contributions during the election
cycle aggregating in excess of $200, the
committee must itemize on Schedule
A and provide the identification (full
name, mailing address, occupation
and name of employer) of the person,
the date and amount of each contribution aggregating in excess of $200, the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
and whether the contribution is for a
primary general or other election.
LINE 11(a)(ii). Enter the total
amount of all contributions from
individual persons other than political
committees not required to be itemized on Schedule A.
LINE 11(a)(iii). Add lines 11(a)(i)
and 11(a)(ii) to derive the figure for
Column A. For the Column B figure,

Page 6

see above instructions for how to
calculate the election cycle-to-date
figure.
LINE 11(b). Enter the total amount
of contributions (other than loans)
from political party committees on
Line 11(b). These contributions must
be itemized on Schedule A, regardless
of the amount. For each contribution,
provide the identification (full name
and address) of the committee, the
date and amount of the contribution,
the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total and whether the contribution is
for a primary, general or other election.
LINE 11(c). Enter the total amount
of contributions (other than loans)
from other political committees on
Line 11(c). These contributions must
be itemized on Schedule A, regardless
of the amount. For each contribution,
provide the identification (full name
and address) of the committee, the
date and amount of the contribution,
the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total, and whether the contribution is
for a primary, general or other election. Do not abbreviate committee
names.
LINE 11(d). Enter the total amount
of contributions (other than loans)
from the candidate on Line 11(d).
If the candidate makes one or more
contributions during the election cycle
aggregating in excess of $200, the
committee must provide on Schedule
A the identification (full name, mailing address, occupation and name
of employer), the date and amount
of each contribution aggregating in
excess of $200, and the aggregate yearto-date totals. If the contribution is
derived from funds that were loaned
to the candidate from a lending institution, or from an advance from the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card or line of credit, report the loan
to the candidate on Schedule C-1.
LINE 11(e). For both Column A and
Column B add Lines 11(a)(iii), 11(b),
11(c) and 11(d) to derive the figures
for Line 11(e).

LINE 12. Enter the total amount
of transfers from other authorized
committees of the same candidate on
Line 12. Loans and loan repayments
received from other authorized committees of the same candidate must
be included on this line and not on
Line 13(b). These transfers must be
itemized on Schedule A, regardless of
the amount. For each transfer, provide the identification (full name and
mailing address) of the committee,
the date and amount of the transfer
and the aggregate election cycle-todate total.
LINE 13(a). Enter the total amount
of loans from the candidate (including
any loans to the committee guaranteed by the candidate) to the committee on Line 13(a). This category
includes loans made by the candidate
from personal funds and loans from
the candidate (including any loans
guaranteed by the candidate) to the
committee derived from a bank loan
to the candidate or from an advance
on the candidate’s brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit,
or other line of credit which are
used for the purpose of influencing
the candidate’s election for federal
office. All loans from the candidate
(including any loans guaranteed by
the candidate) to the committee must
be itemized on Schedule A, regardless
of the amount. For each loan, provide
the candidate’s identification (full
name, mailing address, occupation
and name of employer), the date and
amount of the loan and the aggregate
election cycle-to-date total (see also
instructions for Schedule C).
LINE 13(b). Enter the total amount
of all other loans received on Line
13(b). This category includes all other
types of loans. These loans must be
itemized on Schedule A, regardless of
the amount. For each loan provide
the identification (full name, mailing address and, where applicable,
occupation and name of employer)
of the person making the loan, the
date and amount of the loan, the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
and whether the loan is for a primary,

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

general or other election. The committee must also provide on Schedule
C the identification of any endorser
or guarantor and the amount of the
endorsement or guarantee (see also
instructions for Schedule C).
LINE 14. Enter the total amount
of offsets to operating expenditures (including refunds, rebates, and
returns of deposits) on Line 14. For
each person who provides rebates,
refunds and other offset to operating
expenditures aggregating in excess
of $200 during the election cycle, the
committee must provide on Schedule
A the identification of the person,
the date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and
the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total.
LINE 15. Enter the total amount of
other receipts (including dividends
and interest) on Line 15. For each
person who provides any dividends,
interest or other receipts aggregating
in excess of $200 during the election
cycle, the committee must provide on
Schedule A the identification of the
person, the date and amount of each
receipt aggregating in excess of $200
and the aggregate election cycle-todate total.
LINE 16. For both Column A and
Column B add Lines 11(e), 12, 13(c),
14 and 15 to derive the figures for
Line 16.
LINE 17. Enter the total amount of
operating expenditures on Line 17.
Examples of operating expenditures
are: media advertising, newspaper
advertising, salaries, travel, rent and
telephones. For each person who
receives payments for operating
expenditures aggregating in excess
of $200 during the election cycle, the
committee must provide on Schedule
B the full name and mailing address,
the date and amount of each operating expenditure aggregating in excess
of $200 and the purpose of the
expenditure (see also instructions for
Schedule B).
LINE 18. Enter the total amount of
transfers to other authorized commit9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

tees of the same candidate on Line
18. These transfers must be itemized on Schedule B, regardless of the
amount. For each transfer, provide
the full name and mailing address of
the recipient committee, the date and
amount and state that the purpose of
the disbursement is a “transfer.”
LINE 19(a). Enter the total amount
of loan repayments of loans from the
candidate to his or her authorized
committee (including any loans to
the committee guaranteed by the
candidate) on Line 19(a), including
loans derived from a bank loan to the
candidate or from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit, or
other lines of credit. All loan repayments must be itemized on Schedule
B, regardless of the amount. For each
person who receives a loan repayment,
provide the full name, mailing address,
date and amount, and state that the
purpose of the disbursement is a “loan
repayment” (see also instructions for
Schedule C).
LINE 19(b). Enter the total amount
of loan repayments of all other loans
on Line 19(b) (see instructions for
Line 19(a) for other reporting requirements).
LINE 19(c). For both Column A and
Column B add Lines 19(a) and 19(b)
to derive the figures for Line 19(c).
LINE 20(a). Enter the total amount
of contribution refunds to individuals/
persons other than political committees on Line 20(a). For each person
who receives a refund of a contribution which was previously itemized
on Schedule A, the committee must
provide on Schedule B the full name,
mailing address, date and amount, and
state that the purpose of the disbursement is a “contribution refund”.
LINE 20(b). Enter the total amount
of contribution refunds to political
party committees on Line 20(b). All
such refunds must be itemized on
Schedule B, regardless of the amount.
For each contribution refund, provide
the full name, mailing address, date
and amount, and state that the pur-

pose of the disbursement is a “contribution refund”.
LINE 20(c). Enter the total amount
of contribution refunds to other
political committees on Line 20(c) (see
instructions for Line 20(b) for other
reporting requirements).
LINE 20(d). For both Column A and
Column B add Lines 20(a), 20(b) and
20(c) to derive the figures for Line
20(d).
LINE 21. Enter the total amount
of other disbursements on Line 21.
For each such person who receives
any disbursement(s) not otherwise
disclosed where the aggregate amount
or value is in excess of $200 during
the election cycle, the committee must
provide the full name and address of
each such person, together with the
date, amount and purpose of any such
disbursement.
LINE 22. For both Column A and
Column B add the totals on Lines 17,
18, 19(c), 20(d) and 21 to derive the
figures for Line 22.
LINE 23. Enter the total amount
of cash on hand at the beginning of
the reporting period. This amount
includes: currency; balance on deposit
in banks, savings and loans institutions and other depository institutions; traveler’s checks owned by the
committee; certificates of deposit,
treasury bills and other committee
investments valued at cost.
LINE 24. Transfer the amount from
Column A of Line 16 to Line 24.
LINE 25. Add Lines 23 and 24 to
derive the figure for Line 25.
LINE 26. Transfer the amount from
Column A of Line 22 to Line 26.
LINE 27. Subtract Line 26 from Line
25 to derive cash on hand at the close
of the reporting period for Line 27.
Special Instructions for Last
Report Filed for Your Election
Cycle
For this report ONLY, principal campaign committees must fill
out Parts I and II on pages 5 – 8,
Page 7

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

(Post-Election Detailed Summary
Page) in lieu of filling out pages 3
and 4 (Detailed Summary Page).
Note: Committees must also fill out
Parts III and IV of page 8 (PostElection Detailed Summary Page) in
lieu of filling out Lines 6 and 7 of page
2 (Summary Page). This requirement
applies to the Post-General report filed
by general election candidates or to
the Year-end report filed by all other
candidates in that election cycle.

Page 8

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE A, ITEMIZED
RECEIPTS (FEC FORM 3)
The Detailed Summary Page is
broken down into various categories
of receipts. Use Schedule A to list
each receipt required to be itemized.
DO NOT combine more than one category of receipts on the same Schedule
A. Instead, use a separate Schedule
A for each category of receipts. The
line number of the Detailed Summary Page to which each Schedule
A pertains should be identified in the
upper right corner of each Schedule.
In addition, the committee’s full name
must be entered in the appropriate
block. For each receipt required to be
itemized during the reporting period,
the political committee must provide
the identification, date and amount
of the receipt, and the aggregate
election cycle-to-date total. If disclosing a contribution from a federal
political committee, the committee
should enter the committee’s FEC
identification number. (This number
is readily available from the Commission’s Web site or its Public Disclosure
Division.)
The term “identification” means, in
the case of an individual, his or her full
name, including: first name, middle
name or initial, if available, and last
name; mailing address; occupation;
and the name of his or her employer;
and, in the case of any other person,
the person’s full name and address.
Do not abbreviate committee names.
The occupation and name of
employer are only required to be provided for receipts from individuals.
“Occupation” means the principal
job title or position of an individual.
“Employer” means the organization
or person by whom an individual is
employed, and not the name of his or
her supervisor. Use “self-employed,”
if applicable.
The date of receipt for reporting
purposes is the date the committee
(or its agent) actually obtains possession of the contribution. See 11 CFR
102.8(a). The “election cycle-to-date”
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

total for each entry represents the total
amount received from that source
since the beginning of the election
cycle (starting the day after the last
general election through the date of
the general election). (Note that on
the first report filed after your general
election, receipts received after the
date of the general election are considered to be for the next election cycle
and must be aggregated separately.)
If a receipt is the only receipt from a
person during the election cycle, the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
must still be entered. Authorized
committees must indicate the election
for which the receipt was given. In
the event the receipt was given for an
election other than the current primary or general election, the “Other”
block must be checked and the type of
election specified (i.e., “General 2000,”
“Primary 2004”).
The “Total This Period” amount
(the last line on Schedule A) must be
added to all other receipts for that
category which are not itemized and
carried forward to Column A of the
corresponding line of the Detailed
Summary Page.
If a contribution is received from a
business entity or is drawn on what is
or appears to be a business account,
the political committee must either
determine that the contribution is
not from a corporation, government
contractor, or other prohibited source
or refund it within thirty days of its
receipt.
Contributions to a candidate or
authorized committee that are not
designated or redesignated by the
contributor for a specific election must
be counted toward the contributor’s
limitation for the next election after
the contribution is made, unless they
are presumptively redesignated as
described below. Contributions may
be made for a past election only to
the extent that the recipient has net
debts outstanding from that particular election. A contribution that
appears to be excessive, either on its
face or when aggregated with other
contributions from the same person,
may be presumptively redesignated
or reattributed, if either is applicable,

or it may be returned or deposited
into a campaign depository but not
used. If deposited, the contributor
may be asked if a joint contribution
was intended and, if so, to submit a
written reattribution of the contribution signed by each contributor. The
contributor may also be asked to
redesignate in writing the contribution for a different election if such a
contribution would otherwise be permissible. Alternatively, the excessive
portion of contributions before the
primary election may be presumptively redesignated to the general
election if the redesignation does not
cause the contributor to exceed any
other contribution limit. Contributions after the primary but before the
general election may be presumptively
redesignated for the primary election
to the extent the committee has net
debts outstanding from the primary
election. Contributions may also be
presumptively reattributed to a joint
contributor whose name also appears
imprinted on the contribution check
if the reattribution will not cause the
contributor to exceed any contribution
limits. If the committee presumptively
redesignates or reattributes the excessive contribution, the committee must
notify the contributor of its action,
and offer the opportunity to request a
refund, within sixty days of its receipt
of the original contribution. Both
written redesignations and written
reattributions are to be reported as
memo entries on the report covering
the period in which the committee
receives the redesignations or reattributions. Indicate how any such
contributions were reported initially,
followed by the redesignated or reattributed entry(ies). Presumptive redesignations or reattributions must also
be noted as such. See 11 CFR 110.1(b)
(5)(ii)(B) and (C) for presumptive
redesignations, 11 CFR 110.1(k)(3)
(ii)(B) for presumptive reattributions,
and 11 CFR 104.8 and the Campaign
Guide for the reporting of these types
of contributions.
Contributions In-Kind. Contributions in-kind (i.e., goods and services
provided to a political committee) are
Page 9

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

treated as any other contribution and
must be reported and itemized under
the appropriate category of receipts.
For example, a contribution in-kind
from an individual must be itemized
on Schedule A and reported under
the category for “Contributions From
Individuals/Persons Other Than Political Committees.” The value of each
contribution in-kind must be entered
in the “Amount of Each Receipt This
Period” column. The amount or value
of the contribution in-kind is the difference between the usual and normal
charge for the goods or services at
the time of the contribution and the
amount charged the political committee. The “aggregate election cycleto-date” total must include the total
amount of all contributions which
the person has contributed to the
committee during the election cycle.
The item must be labeled “contribution in-kind” and include the nature
of the contribution (e.g., consulting,
polling, etc.). Each contribution inkind must also be reported in the same
manner as an operating expense on
Schedule B and included in the total
for “Operating Expenditures” (Note:
A political committee which makes a
contribution in-kind only reports it as
a disbursement and itemizes the transaction on Schedule B with a notation
“contribution in-kind.” The purpose
of the expenditures (e.g., consulting,
polling, etc.) and the aggregated election cycle-to-date amount must also
be provided. The committee receiving
the contribution in-kind must report it
as both a receipt and an expenditure.)
Note that special reporting rules apply
when an individual makes an advance
of personal funds for a good or service
but expects to be reimbursed. See the
instructions for reporting “reimbursed
advances by staff ” in the Campaign
Guide for Congressional Candidates.
Contributions of stocks, bonds,
art objects, and other similar items
to be liquidated must be reported as
follows:
(1) If the item has not been liquidated at the close of the reporting period, the committee must
record as a memo entry (not as
cash) on Schedule A the item’s fair
Page 10

market value on the date received,
including the name and mailing
address (and when in excess of
$200, the occupation and name of
the employer) of the contributor.
The total amount of items to be
liquidated must be entered under
“Total This Period” on the last
line of Schedule A. This amount
must NOT be carried forward to
the Detailed Summary Page.
(2) When the item is sold, the committee must report the proceeds
and include them in the appropriate categories on the Detailed
Summary Page. It must also
report the (i) name and mailing
address (and, where in excess of
$200, the occupation and name
of employer) of the purchaser
on Schedule A, if purchased
directly from the committee (the
purchaser is considered to have
made a contribution to the committee); and (ii) the identification
of the original contributor on
Schedule A.
Exempt Legal or Accounting Services. Legal or accounting services
rendered to or on behalf of an authorized committee of a candidate or
any other political committee are not
contributions or expenditure and are
not, therefore, subject to the contribution limitations and prohibitions, if
the person paying for the services is
the regular employer of the individual
rendering the services and if the services are solely to ensure compliance
with the Act.
The political committee must itemize as a memo entry on a separate
Schedule A each person who provides
legal or accounting services to the
political committee in an aggregate
value or amount in excess of $200
within the election cycle, together with
the date of receipt and amount or
value of the exempt legal or accounting services, and state that the receipt
is for “exempt legal or accounting
service.” The total amount of exempt
legal or accounting services must be
entered on the line for “Total This
Period” on the bottom of Schedule
A, but the total amount may not be

carried forward to any category or
line number on the Detailed Summary Page.
Earmarked Contributions. For
each earmarked contribution received
(regardless of the amount), the political committee must report on Schedule
A the name and address of the original
contributor, the date of receipt and
the amount of the contribution and,
if the original contributor makes
contributions aggregating in excess of
$200 to the political committee during
the election cycle, the occupation and
name of employer. If the contribution passes through the political committee’s account and is forwarded to
another political committee or federal
candidate, the conduit committee must
disclose each contribution, regardless
of the amount, on both Schedule
A and Schedule B and include the
amount under the appropriate category of receipts and disbursements.
If the contribution was passed on in
the form of the contributor’s check,
the conduit must disclose each contribution on a separate Schedule A
attached to the conduit’s (intermediary) next report and the amounts of
such contributions are not required
to be included in the totals for the
appropriate categories of receipts and
disbursements. If a political committee is not a conduit, but is the intended
recipient, the political committee must
report each conduit through which
the earmarked contribution passed,
including the name and address of the
conduit, and whether the contribution
was passed on in cash, by the contributor’s check, or by the conduit’s check.
If the conduit exercises direction and
control over the contribution, the
earmarked contribution must also be
attributed to the contribution limitations of the conduit.
Checks Returned Due to Insufficient Funds. If a contributor’s check
is returned to the political committee due to insufficient funds and the
receipt of the check was previously
reported, the political committee must
report the return under the appropriate category of receipts as a negative
entry and subtract the amount of the
check from the total for that category.
Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

If the original receipt of the check was
previously itemized on Schedule A,
the return of the check must also be
itemized as a negative entry on Schedule A. If the receipt of the check was
never reported, the return of the check
should not be reported.
Check Refunded to the Committee.
A contribution may be refunded to the
committee in one of two ways:
(1) The original check is returned
uncashed. If the contribution
was previously reported, the
refund should be reported as a
negative entry on Schedule B
on the current report, and the
amount of the contribution
refund subtracted from the disbursement totals on the line of
the Detailed Summary Page that
it was previously reported on.
(2) The original check is not returned
and the refund is made by a
check from the recipient of the
contribution. Such a transaction
should be reported as a receipt on
Schedule A for the appropriate
line of the Detailed Summary
Page on the current report. This
procedure is applicable regardless
of whether the amount refunded
is the full or only a partial refund
of the contribution or whether
the contribution was previously
reported.
Best Efforts. When the treasurer
of a political committee shows that
best efforts have been used to obtain,
maintain and submit the information required, the committee shall be
considered in compliance with the
Act. With regard to reporting the
identification of each person whose
contribution(s) to the committee and
its affiliated committees aggregate in
excess of $200 in an election cycle,
the treasurer will only be deemed to
have exercised best efforts to obtain,
maintain and report the required
information if all written solicitations for contributions include a clear
request for the information (i.e., name,
mailing address, occupation and name
of employer) and include an accurate
statement of federal law regarding the
collection and reporting of individual
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

contributor identifications. In addition, for each contribution requiring
itemization which lacks contributor
information, the treasurer must,
within 30-Days of receipt of the contribution, make one effort to obtain
the missing information. See 11 CFR
104.7 and the Campaign Guide for
Congressional Candidates for more
information.
Loans. Report a loan received on
Schedule A for the appropriate line
number of the Detailed Summary
Page, in the reporting period during
which the loan is received. Also, disclose the loan on Schedule C, and, if
from a lending institution, on Schedule C-1.
If a candidate personally receives
a loan from a lending institution, or
an advance from a brokerage account,
credit card or line of credit, and then
contributes or loans some or all of
those funds to the campaign, report
the amount of funds contributed or
loaned on Schedule C-1. If the candidate treats the funds as a personal
contribution, report the receipt of
the contribution from the candidate
on Schedule A for Line 11(d). If the
candidate treats the funds as a loan,
report the receipt of the loan on
Schedule A for Line 13(a). See also
the instructions for Schedule C-1. A
loan obtained by the candidate from a
brokerage account, credit card, home
equity line of credit or other line of
credit that is used exclusively for routine living expenses does not have to
be reported, provided the loan is not
guaranteed by third parties and the
loan is repaid exclusively from the
personal funds of the candidate. If
such a loan is used in part for routine
living expenses and in part for influencing the candidate’s election for
federal office, only the latter part must
be reported.

Page 11

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE B, ITEMIZED
DISBURSEMENTS
(FEC FORM 3)
The Detailed Summary Page is
broken down into various categories
of disbursements. Use Schedule B to
list each disbursement required to be
itemized. DO NOT combine more
than one category of disbursements
on the same Schedule B. Instead, use a
separate Schedule B for each category
of disbursements. The line number of
the Detailed Summary Page to which
each Schedule B pertains should be
identified in the upper right corner of
each Schedule. In addition, the committee’s full name must be entered in
the appropriate block.
For each disbursement required
to be itemized during the reporting
period, the political committee must
provide the full name, mailing address,
date, amount, and purpose of the
disbursement.
The term “purpose” means a brief
statement or description of why the
disbursement was made. Examples
of adequate descriptions include the
following: dinner expenses, media,
salary, polling, travel, party fees,
phone banks, travel expenses, travel
expense reimbursement, and catering
costs. However, statements or descriptions such as “advance,” “election day
expenses,” “other expenses,” “expense
reimbursement,” “miscellaneous,”
“outside services,” “get-out-the-vote,”
and “voter registration,” would not
meet the requirement for reporting
the purpose of an expenditure. If the
disbursement is a “loan repayment,”
“contribution refund,” or other similar
category of disbursement (other than
an operating expenditure), the name
of the category of disbursement (i.e.,
“loan repayment,” etc.) is sufficient to
meet the requirement for reporting the
purpose of an expenditure.
Along with reporting the purpose
of the expenditure as required above,
the committee should also broadly
characterize disbursements by providing the code for each category of
disbursement. Examples of the types
Page 12

of disbursements that fall within each
of the broad categories are listed
below. Use only one code for each
itemized disbursement. In cases where
the disbursement was for several purposes, the committee should assign
one code according to the primary
purpose of the disbursement. Note
that some of the category titles are
not acceptable as the “purpose” of the
disbursement and that the categories
are not intended to replace or to serve
as a substitute for the “purpose of
disbursement.”
001
Administrative/Salary/Overhead Expenses (e.g., rent, staff
salaries, postage, office supplies,
equipment, furniture, ballot
access fees, petition drives, party
fees and legal and accounting
expenses)
002

Travel Expenses—including
travel reimbursement expenses
(e.g., costs of commercial carrier tickets; reimbursements for
use of private vehicles, advance
payments for use of corporate aircraft; lodging and meal expenses
incurred during travel)

003

Solicitation and Fundraising
Expenses (e.g., costs for direct
mail solicitations and fundraising
events including printing, mailing
lists, consultant fees, call lists,
invitations, catering costs and
room rental)

004

A dve r t i s i n g E x p e n s e s —
including general public political advertising (e.g., purchases of
radio/television broadcast/cable
time, print advertisements and
related production costs)

005

Polling Expenses

006

Campaign Materials (e.g., buttons, bumper stickers, brochures,
mass mailings, pens, posters and
balloons)

007

Campaign Event Expenses
(e.g., costs associated with candidate appearances, campaign
rallies, town meetings, phone
banks, including catering costs,
door-to-door get-out-the-vote
efforts and driving voters to the

polls)
008

Transfers (e.g., to other authorized committees of the same
candidate)

009

Loan Repayments (e.g., repayments of loans made or guaranteed by the candidate or any other
person)

010

Refunds of Contributions
(e.g., contribution refunds to individuals/persons, political party
committees or other political
committees)

011

Political Contributions (e.g.,
contributions to other federal
candidates and committees, donations to non-federal candidates
and committees)

012

Donations (e.g., donations
to charitable or civic organizations)

For disbursements that are contributions to federal candidates, or
authorized committees, the committee must include under “Purpose
of Disbursement” the name of the
candidate and office sought (including
State and congressional district, where
applicable) and the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total of contributions
made to that candidate or committee
in the purpose of disbursement box.
For each contribution to a federal
candidate or authorized committee,
indicate in the election check-off box
the election for which the contribution
was made. Contributions to a candidate or authorized committee which
are not designated by the contributor
for a specific election must be counted
toward the contributor’s limitation for
the next election after the contribution is made. Contributions may be
made for a past election only to the
extent that the recipient has net debts
outstanding from that particular election. In the event the contribution
was made for an election prior to the
current election cycle, the “Other”
box must be checked and the type
of election specified (e.g., “General
2000,” “Primary 2004”). The election
check-off boxes provided for each
itemized entry on Schedule B should
Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

not be used when itemizing operating
expenditures.
The “Total This Period” amount
(the last line on Schedule B) must be
added to all other disbursements for
that category which are not itemized
and carried forward to Column A of
the corresponding line of the Detailed
Summary Page.
Contributions In-Kind Received
Contributions in-kind received by
the committee which are itemized on
Schedule A must also be itemized as
an operating expenditure on Schedule
B. In addition, in the “Purpose of
Disbursement” box include the notation “Contribution In-Kind,” and
the nature of the expenditure (e.g.,
consulting, polling, etc.).

9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

Page 13

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C, LOANS
(FEC FORM 3)
A loan is a contribution at the
time it is made and is a contribution
to the extent it remains unpaid. A
LOAN WHICH EXCEEDS THE
CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS
IS UNLAWFUL WHETHER OR
NOT IT IS REPAID. The aggregate
amount loaned to a candidate or committee by another individual or political committee, when added to other
contributions from that individual or
political committee to that candidate
or committee, shall not exceed the
contribution limitations. A loan, to
the extent it is repaid, is no longer a
contribution. All loans to a political
committee (regardless of amount)
must be disclosed on the first report
filed with the Commission after the
date the loan is made.
When filling out Schedule C, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page.
DO NOT combine loans owed TO
the committee with those owed BY
the committee on the same Schedule
C. Instead, use a separate Schedule
C. Report each loan separately until
extinguished.
Loans Owed By the Committee
Itemize each loan received by the
committee on Schedule A for the
appropriate line of the Detailed Summary Page, and also disclose it on
Schedule C (see also instructions for
Schedule A for itemizing loans received
by the committee) and Schedule C-1 (if
applicable). For each loan owed BY the
reporting committee at the close of the
reporting period, the committee must
report certain basic information on
Schedule C in the appropriate boxes:
(1) full name, mailing address and zip
code of the creditor; (2) the election to
which the loan applies (i.e., primary,
general or other); (3) the original
amount of the loan; (4) the cumulative
payment to date on the loan; and (5)
the outstanding balance at the close of
the reporting period (i.e., the remaining
unpaid portion of the loan).
Page 14

Enter certain additional information on Schedule C in the box entitled
TERMS: (1) if an intermediary is
reported as the source of the loan,
the original source of the loan (which
must be disclosed in the first box
for endorsers and guarantors with a
notation that the person identified is
the original source); (2) the date the
obligation was incurred; (3) the date
the loan is due or the amortization
schedule (if there is no due date or
amortization schedule, enter “None”
on the appropriate line); (4) the actual
rate of interest charged on each loan
(if the loan does not bear an interest
rate, enter “None” on the appropriate
line); and (5) check the box if the loan
has been secured.
In instances where the loan has
endorsers or guarantors, supply the
following information : (1) the identification of each endorser or guarantor,
and (2) the amount of the endorsement or guarantee outstanding at the
close of the reporting period. The
term “identification” means (a) in the
case of an individual, his or her full
name, mailing address, occupation,
and name of employer; and (b) in the
case of any other person, the person’s
full name and address.
In instances where the loan is
derived from either a bank loan to the
candidate or from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit or
other line of credit, report the candidate as the source of the loan on
Schedule C. In addition to reporting
the terms of the loan in the appropriate boxes, disclose the type/source of
loan the candidate received (i.e., bank
loan, brokerage account, credit card,
home equity line of credit, other line
of credit, or personal funds of the
candidate) in the first box for endorsers and guarantors with a notation
for loan type or in the box for “Loan
Source” after the candidate’s name.
Continue to report loans owed BY
the committee on each subsequent
report until repaid. When a payment
is made to reduce or extinguish the
amount of a loan owed BY the committee, the payment must be itemized

on Schedule B, reported on the appropriate line of the Detailed Summary
Page, and included in the “Cumulative
Payment to Date” column on Schedule
C. If any extension for repayment is
granted, report this on the first report
after the extension is made.
If a loan is settled for less than the
reported amount, the reporting committee must include a statement as
to the circumstances and conditions
under which the debt or obligation
was extinguished and the amount
paid. A loan owed BY a political
committee which is forgiven or settled
for less than the amount owed is a
contribution. Enter the total amount
of loans owed BY the committee at
the close of the reporting period on
the line for “Total This Period” on the
bottom of the last page and transfer
the total to Line 3 of the last page of
Schedule D. If no debts or obligations
are reported on Schedule D, carry the
outstanding balance forward to the
Summary Page.
Loans Owed To the Committee
A loan made by the committee must
be itemized on Schedule B and must
also be disclosed on Schedule C. For
each loan owed TO the committee
at the close of the reporting period,
report certain basic information on
Schedule C in the appropriate boxes:
(1) the full name, mailing address and
zip code of each debtor; (2) if the
loan was made to another Federal
candidate or authorized committee,
the election to which the loan applies
(i.e., primary, general or other); (3)
the original amount of the loan; (4)
the cumulative payment to date on the
loan; and (5) the outstanding balance
at the close of the reporting period
(i.e., the remaining unpaid portion of
the loan).
Certain additional information
must be entered on Schedule C in the
box entitled TERMS: (1) the date the
obligation was incurred; (2) the date
the loan is due or the amortization
schedule (if there is no due date or
amortization schedule, enter “None”
on the appropriate line; (3) the actual
rate of interest charged on the loan
Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

(if the loan does not bear an interest
rate, enter “None” on the appropriate
line); and (4) check the box if the loan
has been secured. Continue to report
loans owed TO the committee on each
subsequent report until repaid. When
a payment is received to reduce or
extinguish a loan owed TO the committee, itemize the payment on Schedule A, report on the appropriate line
of the Detailed Summary Page, and
include in the “Cumulative Payment
to Date” column on Schedule C. If
any extension of repayment is granted
or made, report this on the first report
after the extension is made.
Enter the total amount of loans
owed TO the committee at the close
of the reporting period on the line for
“Total This Period” on the bottom of
the last page and transferred to Line 3
of the last page of Schedule D. If no
debts or obligations are reported on
Schedule D, carry the outstanding balance forward to the Summary Page.
Miscellaneous
Loans by Financial Institutions.
A loan of money by a State bank, a
federally chartered depository institution (including a national bank) or a
depository institution whose deposits
and accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
or the National Credit Union Administration is not a contribution by the
lending institution if the loan is made
in accordance with applicable banking
laws and regulations and is made in
the ordinary course of business. A
loan will be deemed to be made in
the ordinary course of business if it:
bears the usual and customary interest rate of the lending institution for
the category of loan involved; is made
on a basis that assures repayment; is
evidenced by a written instrument;
and is subject to a due date or an
amortization schedule.
Candidate Loans. When a candidate obtains a loan that is then loaned
to the campaign to influence the candidate’s election to federal office, the
information the principal campaign
committee must disclose depends on
the source of the money being loaned.
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

If the candidate obtains a bank loan
or a loan of money derived from an
advance on the candidate’s brokerage
account, credit card, home equity line
of credit or other line of credit, only
the candidate needs to be listed as the
source of the loan on Schedule C. The
type of loan the candidate receives
(i.e., bank loan, brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit,
other line of credit, personal funds of
the candidate) must also be disclosed
in either the first box for endorsers
and guarantors with a notation for
loan type or in the box for “Loan
Source” after the candidate’s name.
The terms of the loan between the
candidate and the committee (not
the terms between the candidate and
lending institution) must be reported
in the appropriate boxes along with
information regarding the endorsers and guarantors. If the candidate
obtains a loan from another person,
list the other person as the original
source of the loan and the candidate
as the intermediary. Loans obtained
by an individual prior to becoming a
candidate that are subsequently used
to influence the candidate’s election
to Federal office must be reported
as an outstanding loan owed to the
candidate by the principal campaign
committee, if the loan is outstanding
at the time an individual becomes a
candidate.
Loans by Political Committees. If a
political committee makes a loan TO
any person, the loan shall be subject
to the contribution limitations. Repayment to the political committee of
the principal amount of the loan is
not a contribution by the debtor to
the lender committee. The repayment
must be made with funds which are
permissible under the Act. The payment of interest to the committee by
the debtor is a contribution only to the
extent that the interest paid exceeds a
commercially reasonable rate prevailing at the time the loan is made. All
payments of interest must be made
from funds which are permissible
under the Act.
Endorsers and Guarantors. A loan
is a contribution by each endorser or
guarantor. Each endorser or guaran-

tor shall be deemed to have contributed that portion of the total amount
of the loan for which he or she agreed
to be liable in a written agreement.
Any reduction in the unpaid balance
of the loan shall reduce proportionately the amount endorsed or guaranteed by each endorser or guarantor
in such written agreement. In the
event that such agreement does not
stipulate the portion of the loan for
which each endorser or guarantor is
liable, the loan shall be considered a
loan by each endorser or guarantor in
the same proportion to the unpaid balance that each endorser or guarantor
bears to the total number of endorsers
or guarantors.
Loan Repayments. Each committee must disclose all loan payments
received or made by the committee.
When a loan repayment is received by
a committee, the repayment must be
itemized on Schedule A and included
in the “Cumulative Payment to Date”
column on Schedule C. When a loan
repayment is made by a committee,
the repayment must be itemized on
Schedule B for the appropriate line
and included in the “Cumulative Payment to Date” column on Schedule C.
The total amount of loan repayments
of loans made or guaranteed by the
candidate and the total amount of
loan repayments of all other loans
must be disclosed on the appropriate
lines of the Detailed Summary Page.
For candidate loans, the candidate’s
authorized committee may repay the
loan directly to the candidate or to the
original lender. The amount of repayment must not exceed the amount of
the principal used for the purpose of
influencing the candidate’s election
for Federal office and interest that
has accrued on that principal. When
repayments are made to the candidate
for candidate loans, the committee is
not required to report the repayments
made by the candidate to the lending
institution.

Page 15

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C-1, LOANS AND
LINES OF CREDIT FROM
LENDING INSTITUTIONS
(FEC FORM 3)
Background:
1. FEC Regulations on Loans
from Lending Institutions to the
Committee

Schedule C-1 seeks information
on loans—including lines of credit—
from lending institutions such as state
or federally chartered banks, federally
insured savings and loan associations
or federally insured credit unions. The
purpose of Schedule C-1 is to verify
that a loan or line of credit does not
result in a prohibited contribution
from the lending institution, a violation of the federal campaign finance
law.
Under FEC regulations at 11 CFR
100.82, 100.83, 100.142 and 100.143,
a loan “made in accordance with
applicable banking laws” and “in the
ordinary course of business” is not
considered a contribution or an expenditure if certain conditions are met.
One of these conditions is that the
loan “is made on a basis which assures
repayment.” Schedule C-1 documents
whether or not the loan complies with
these requirements.
2. FEC Regulations on Loans
Used for Loans or Contributions
from the Candidate to the
Committee

Schedule C-1 also seeks information
when a candidate obtains a bank loan
or a loan derived from an advance on
the candidate’s brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit,
or other line of credit available to
the candidate, including an overdraft
made on a personal checking or savings account of the candidate and
that loan is used for the purpose of
influencing the candidate’s election for
Federal office. The loan must be made
in accordance with applicable law and
under commercially reasonable terms,
Page 16

and the person making the loan to
the candidate must make loans in the
normal course of business.
Who Must File Schedule C-1
A political committee that obtains
a loan or line of credit from a bank
or other lending institution must file
Schedule C-1. An authorized committee of a candidate must also file Schedule C-1 when the candidate obtains a
bank loan or loan of money derived
from an advance on the candidate’s
brokerage account, credit card, home
equity line of credit or other line of
credit and the borrowed funds are
used for the purpose of influencing the
candidate’s election for Federal office.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1). (See Schedule C
instructions on Candidate Loans.)
When to File Schedule C-1
A Schedule C-1 must be filed for
each loan and each line of credit
obtained from either a lending institution or from the candidate, when the
loan is derived from a bank loan or
from an advance on the candidate’s
brokerage account, credit card, home
equity line of credit or other line of
credit. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1).
Loans. A committee must file a
Schedule C-1 with its next report when
it first obtains a loan and in succeeding
reporting periods each time the terms
of the loan are restructured. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1) and (3). (A restructured
loan is considered a new loan.)
Lines of Credit. A committee must
file a Schedule C-1 with its next report
when a line of credit is established and
in succeeding reporting periods each
time any draws are made on the line
of credit and each time the line of
credit is restructured to change the
repayment terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)
(1) and (3).
Reporting Loans and Lines of
Credit on Schedules A and C
Schedule A. When a candidate or
committee obtains a loan that is used
for the purpose of influencing the candidate’s election for federal office, the
committee must itemize the receipt on
a Schedule A for the appropriate line

number. However, a line of credit is
itemized on Schedule A only when the
candidate or committee obtains funds
by making a draw on the credit.
Schedule C. All loans to a committee must be continuously disclosed
on Schedule C, starting with the
first report due after the committee
obtains the loan and continuing with
each report thereafter until the loan
is repaid.
Line-by-Line Instructions
Schedule C Cross-Reference. Enter
the Schedule C page number where
information on the loan or line of
credit appears.
Name of Committee Obtaining
Loan. Enter the full name of the
reporting committee.
Identification Number. Enter the
reporting committee’s FEC identification number. If the committee
is newly registered and has not yet
obtained a number, enter “not yet
assigned.”
Name/Address of Lender. Enter
the full name, address and zip code of
the lending institution. For loans from
the candidate that are obtained from
a bank or derived from an advance
on the candidate’s brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit
or other line of credit, the lending
institution’s full name and address
should be provided, rather than that
of the candidate.
Loan Amount. For loans or lines
of credit made to the committee
directly from a lending institution,
enter the amount of the loan or line
of credit. If reporting a restructured
loan or line of credit, enter the amount
under the new terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)
(1)(i) and (3). If a candidate obtains
a loan from a bank or derived from
an advance on a brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit
or other line of credit and contributes
or loans some or all of that amount
to the committee for the purpose of
influencing the candidate’s election
for Federal office, report here only
the amount used for the purpose of
influencing the candidate’s election
for Federal office. For loans derived
Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

from a draw on the candidate’s line of
credit the committee need only report
the amount of the draw in this section,
and not the entire amount of the line
of credit.
Interest Rate. Enter the annual
percentage rate (APR) of interest on
the loan or each draw on the line of
credit. If reporting a restructured
loan or line of credit, enter the interest rate under the new terms. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(ii) and (3). For loans from
the candidate that are obtained from
a bank or derived from an advance
on the candidate’s brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit
or other line of credit, provide the
interest rate for the loan from the
lending institution to the candidate,
not the interest rate for the loan from
the candidate to the committee.
Date Incurred or Established.
Enter the date the candidate or committee incurred the debt by signing the
loan agreement (the original agreement or a restructured agreement, as
appropriate). 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i)
and (3). For loans from the candidate
that are obtained from a bank or
derived from an advance on the candidate’s brokerage account, credit card,
home equity line of credit or other line
of credit, provide the date incurred
or established for the loan from the
lending institution to the candidate,
not the date incurred or established
for the loan from the candidate to the
committee.
Due Date. Enter the date on which
full repayment of the loan or line of
credit is due (under the original agreement or a restructured agreement,
as appropriate). 11 CFR 104.3(d)
(1)(ii) and (3). The due date is not
required for a loan of money from an
advance on the candidate’s brokerage
account, credit card, home equity line
of credit, or other line of credit and
such loans are used in the candidate’s
campaign.
A. Restructured Loans. Check yes
if the loan or line of credit has
been restructured to change the
terms; enter the date on which the
original loan or line of credit was
incurred. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(3).
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

B. Draws on Line of Credit. If reporting a draw on a line of credit,
enter the amount of the draw and
the outstanding balance owed
on the line of credit (cumulative draws less any repayments
made). 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii).
This information is not required
for loans derived from the candidate’s home equity line of credit
or other line of credit and used
for the purpose of influencing the
candidate’s election for Federal
office.
C. Secondary Sources of Repayment. Check yes if the loan or
line of credit was endorsed or
guaranteed by secondary parties. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii).
Information on endorsers and
guarantors must be disclosed on
Schedule C. (Note that guarantees and endorsements of loans
are considered contributions; see
Schedule C instructions.)
D. Traditional Collateral. Check
yes if the loan or line of credit
was obtained using traditional
sources of collateral, and list the
specific assets that were pledged.
Enter the total fair market value
of the collateral as of the date
of the loan agreement. Indicate
whether the lender has a perfected
security interest in the collateral.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii). (Note
that a perfected security interest is
a requirement under FEC regulations. 11 CFR 100.82(e)(1)(i) and
100.142(e)(1)(i).
E. Future Receipts as Collateral. Check
yes if the loan or line of credit was
obtained using future receipts as
collateral; list the types of receipts
that were pledged; and enter
their estimated amount. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(iii). Enter the date the
separate account was established
for the deposit of pledged receipts.
(A depository account is required
under 11 CFR 100.82(e)(2)(iii)
and 100.142(e)(2)(iii).) Provide
the full name and address of the
depository institution where the
account was established.

F. Other Means of Obtaining Loan.
Complete this section if “no”
was checked in sections C, D,
and E or if the amount cosigned
and/or pledged for the loan or
line of credit is less than the loan
amount. If so, state the basis
upon which the loan was made
and the basis on which it assures
repayment. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)
(iv).
G. Treasurer’s Signature and Date.
The committee treasurer (or
properly designated assistant
treasurer) must sign and date the
form; the signer’s name should
be printed or typed beside the
signature. The treasurer’s signature and date are not required
for bank loans obtained by the
candidate or a loan of money
from an advance on the candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit,
or other line of credit.
H. Copy of Loan Agreement. Attach
a copy of the signed agreement.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(2). A copy of
the loan agreement is not required
for bank loans obtained by the
candidate or a loan of money
from an advance on the candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit,
or other line of credit.
I. Lender Certification. An authorized representative of the lending
institution must sign and date the
form to certify that the lender has
complied with items I through
III. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(v). The
representative’s name should be
printed or typed beside his or her
signature. The representative’s
title must also be entered. Lender
certification is not required for
bank loans obtained by the candidate or a loan of money from
an advance on the candidate’s
brokerage account, credit card,
home equity line of credit, or
other line of credit.

Page 17

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE D, DEBTS AND
OBLIGATIONS (FEC FORM 3)
When filling out Schedule D, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page.
DO NOT combine debts and obligations owed to the committee with
those owed by the committee on the
same Schedule D. Instead, use a separate Schedule D.
Debts and Obligations Owed
by the Committee (Other Than
Loans)
For debts and obligations owed BY
the reporting committee at the close
of the reporting period and which
are required to be disclosed, the committee must report the full name and
mailing address of each creditor, the
amount of the debt outstanding at the
beginning of the period, the amount
of the debt or obligation incurred this
period (including any finance charges),
the payment(s) this period to retire the
debt or obligation, the outstanding
balance at the close of the reporting
period and the nature or purpose of
the debt and obligation. The terms
“nature” or “purpose” mean a brief
statement or description of why the
debt or obligation was incurred (e.g.,
media, salary, polling, supplies, mailing).
A written contract (including a
media contract), promise, or agreement to make an expenditure which
has not been paid for by the committee is an expenditure as of the date
the contract, promise or obligation
is made and is subject to the reporting requirements. Accounts payable
and written contracts, promises, or
agreements to make expenditures,
in amounts of $500 or less, need not
be disclosed until outstanding for
sixty days or more. Note that special
reporting rules apply when an individual makes an advance of personal
funds for a good or service but expects
to be reimbursed. See the instructions
for reporting “reimbursed advances
by staff ” in the Campaign Guide for
Congressional Candidates.
Page 18

Debts and obligations owed BY
the committee must continue to be
reported on each subsequent report
until extinguished or settled in a
manner permitted by Federal Election
Commission regulations (see 11 CFR
Part 116 for settlement of corporate
debts). When a payment is made to
reduce or extinguish an obligation
owed BY the committee, the payment must be itemized on Schedule
B, reported on the appropriate line
of the Detailed Summary Page, and
included in the “Payment This Period”
column on Schedule D. If a debt
or obligation is settled for less than
the reported amount or value, the
reporting committee must include
a statement as to the circumstances
and conditions under which the debt
or obligation was extinguished and
the amount paid. A debt owed BY a
political committee which is forgiven
or settled for less than the amount
owed is a contribution unless the debt
is forgiven or settled in accordance
with 11 CFR Part 116. The extension
of credit by any person for a length
of time beyond normal business or
trade practice is a contribution, unless
the creditor has made a commercially
reasonable attempt to collect the debt.
The total amount of debts and obligations owed BY the committee during
the reporting period must be entered
at the bottom of the last page under
“Total This Period” and added to the
total loans owed BY the committee
from Schedule C. The total amount
of debts and obligations owed BY
the committee (including loans) must
be carried forward to the Summary
Page.

debt or obligation, the outstanding
balance at the close of the reporting
period and the nature or purpose of
the debt or obligation. The terms
“nature” or “purpose” mean a brief
statement or description of why the
debt or obligation was incurred (e.g.,
media, salary, polling, supplies, mailing). Written contracts or agreements
(such as signed pledge cards), or oral
promises to make contributions are
not required to be reported.
Debts and obligations owed TO
the committee must continue to be
reported on each subsequent report
until extinguished. When a payment
is received to reduce or extinguish a
debt or obligation owed TO the committee, the payment must be itemized
on Schedule A, reported on the appropriate line of the Detailed Summary
Page, and included in the “Payment
This Period” column on Schedule D.
The total amount of debts and obligations owed TO the committee during
the reporting period must be entered
at the bottom of the last page under
“Total This Period” and added to the
total loans owed TO the committee
from Schedule C. The total amount
of debts and obligations owed TO
the committee (including loans) must
be carried forward to the Summary
Page.

Debts and Obligations Owed
to the Committee (Other Than
Loans)
For each debt and obligation owed
TO the committee at the close of the
reporting period, the committee must
report: the full name and mailing
address of each debtor, the amount of
the debt outstanding at the beginning
of the period, the amount of the debt
or obligation incurred this period, the
payment(s) this period to retire the
Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
CONSOLIDATION REPORT
OF RECEIPTS AND
DISBURSEMENTS
(FEC FORM 3Z)
A principal campaign committee
that is the only authorized committee of a candidate does not use FEC
FORM 3Z.
The principal campaign committee
must file Form 3Z if the candidate has
authorized other political committees. Enter the name of the principal
campaign committee and the coverage
dates for the report in the appropriate
blocks at the top of the page. List
the name of the principal campaign
committee, and all authorized committees in the column entitled “Committee Names”. The principal campaign committee or one of the other
authorized committees must report
the candidate’s activity. Each line is
coded with a letter from A through J.
All information for each committee
is recorded on the same lettered line
throughout the form (e.g., the principal campaign committee is on Line A
for columns (a)-(cc)).
Columns (a) through (cc) on the
Worksheet correspond to the numbered lines on the Summary Page of
Receipts and Disbursements (FEC
FORM 3, page 2) and the Detailed
Summary Page of Receipts and Disbursements (FEC FORM 3, pages 3
and 4). Note: For the last report filed
during an election cycle, the committee should use pages 5-8 (Post-Election
Detailed Summary Page) instead of
pages 3 and 4 (Detailed Summary
Page). See special instructions below.
For Lines (a)-(w) and (z)-(cc), transfer
the dollar amounts from Column A
of each numbered line of each committee’s report to the appropriate
column on the Consolidation Report.
For Lines (x) and (y), there is no
Column A and the dollar amounts
are transferred from Line 23 and Line
27, respectively, of page 4 (Detailed
Summary Page). Enter the total for
each column on Line 1. If there are
more than two authorized committees,
9-00073

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

more than one FEC FORM 3Z will be
needed and the total amount for each
column for all pages must be entered
on Line B for the last page.
The principal campaign committee
must submit the completed Form 3Z
with the principal campaign committee’s report and the report of all other
authorized committees for campaigns
in which a candidate has authorized in
writing more than one political committee to act on his or her behalf.
Special instructions for last report
filed during your election cycle. For this
report only, transfer line totals from
pages 5 – 8 (Post-Election Detailed
Summary Page). For Lines (a)-(w),
transfer totals from Column A, pages
5 – 8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary Page). For Lines (x) and (y),
there is no Column A and the dollar
amounts are transferred from Line
23 and Line 27, respectively, of page
8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary
Page). For Lines (z) and (aa), transfer
totals from Lines 9 and 10 of page
2 (Summary Page). For Lines (bb)
and (cc), transfer totals from Sections III and IV, respectively, of page
8 (Post-Election Detailed Summary
Page).

Page 19

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Page 20

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00073

