INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P PAGE 3

Federal Election Commission

Instructions For FEC Form 3P, Page 3
Post-Election Detailed Summary Page
WHEN TO USE THIS FORM:
Use this form in lieu of the Detailed
Summary Page and Line Numbers
14 and 15 of the Report of Receipts
and Disbursements for the reporting
period that includes the date of the
general election. (The election cycle
for disclosure purposes begins the day
after the general election for a seat or
office, and ends on the day of the next
general election for that seat or office.
See 11 CFR 100.3(b).) For example, if
the candidate participated in the general
election, use this form for the 30-day
Post-General report, since the coverage
dates for that report would include
general election day.
This form covers activity spanning
two election cycles. There are three
Columns of activity disclosed on the
report. The first column, Column A,
is used to report the total amount of
receipts and disbursements for each
category of activity during the reporting
period; i.e., activity that occurred both
before and after the date of the general
election. The second column, Column
B, discloses the aggregate election
cycle-to-date totals for each category of
activity, incorporating information from
the last report filed. Finally, Column C
only includes activity that occurred after
the date of the general election through
the end of the reporting period.
If there are no receipts or
disbursements for a particular category
during a reporting period or election
cycle, enter “0.”
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLUMN A
Column A includes the total receipts
and disbursements for each category
of activity during the reporting period.
Use the appropriate Schedules A-P or
B-P to list each receipt or disbursement
required to be itemized. The total for

each category (“Total This Period” from
Schedule A-P or Schedule B-P) should
then be added to any unitemized receipts
or disbursements for that category, and
entered on the appropriate line of the
Post-Election Detailed Summary Page,
page 3, in Column A.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLUMN B
Fill in the date of the just-ended
general election. To derive the totals
for Column B, first separate the Column
A receipts and disbursements for each
category by date—those that occurred
through the date of the general election,
and those that occurred after the date
of the general election. Column B will
include those receipts and disbursements
received or made from the beginning
of the reporting period through the date
of the general election, added to the
“Election Cycle-to-Date” figure from
Column B of the Detailed Summary
Page, page 2, of the committee’s last
report. Column B will then represent all
of the activity that occurred during the
just-ended election cycle up through the
date of the general election.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLUMN C
Fill in the date of the day after the
just-ended Presidential election. (For
example, for the 2012 election, fill in
“11/7/12.”) Fill in the last day of the
reporting period. To derive the total
for each line, add those transactions
from Column A that occurred during
the period beginning the day after
the general election through the end
of the reporting period. Column C
will then represent those receipts and
disbursements received or made the day
after the general election and throughout
the remainder of the reporting period.

LINE BY LINE INSTRUCTIONS
LINE 16. Enter total amount of federal
funds received by the committee during
the reporting period. These receipts must
be itemized on Schedule A-P regardless
of the amount.
LINE 17(a)(i). Enter the total amount
of itemized contributions (other than
loans) from individuals/persons other
than political committees on Line 17(a)
(i). Each contribution made by a person
who has made one or more contributions
during the election cycle aggregating
in excess of $200 must be itemized
on Schedule A-P. The committee must
provide the identification (full name,
mailing address, occupation and name
of employer) of the person, the date and
amount of each contribution aggregating
in excess of $200, the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total and whether the
contribution is for a primary, general or
other election.
LINE 17(a)(ii). Enter the total amount
of unitemized contributions (other than
loans) from individuals/persons other
than political committees on Line 17(a)
(ii).
LINE 17(a)(iii). For Columns A, B, and
C, add Lines 17(a)(i) and 17(a)(ii) to
derive figures for Line 17(a)(iii).
LINE 17(b). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
political party committees on Line
17(b). These contributions must be
itemized on Schedule A-P regardless
of the amount. For each contribution,
provide the identification (full name
and address) of the committee, the date
and amount of the contribution, the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
and whether the contribution is for a
primary, general or other election.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P PAGE 3

LINE 17(c). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
other political committees on Line 17(c).
These contributions must be itemized on
Schedule A-P regardless of the amount.
For each contribution, include the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total,
and whether the contribution is for a
primary, general, or other election. Do
not abbreviate committee names.
LINE 17(d). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from the
candidate on Line 17(d). If the candidate
makes one or more contributions during
the election cycle aggregating in excess
of $200, the committee must provide on
Schedule A-P the identification of the
candidate (full name, mailing address,
occupation and name of employer), the
date and amount of each contribution
aggregating in excess of $200, and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date totals.
LINE 17(e). For Columns A, B and C,
add Lines 17(a)(iii), 17(b), 17(c) and
17(d) to derive figures for Line 17(e).
LINE 18. Enter the total amount
of transfers from other authorized
committees of the same candidate.
Loans and loan repayments received
from other authorized committees of
the same candidate must be included on
this line and not on Line 19(b). These
transfers must be itemized on Schedule
A-P, regardless of the amount. For
each transfer, provide the identification
(full name and mailing address) of the
committee, the date and amount of
the transfer and the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total.
LINE 19(a). Enter the total amount
of loans made or guaranteed by the
candidate on Line 19(a). This category
includes personal loans from the
candidate and loans from lending
institutions which are secured, endorsed
or guaranteed by the candidate and
used in connection with the candidate’s
campaign for Federal office. All loans
made, guaranteed or endorsed by the
candidate must be itemized on Schedule
A-P, regardless of the amount. For each
loan, provide the identification of the
candidate (full name, mailing address,

occupation and name of employer), the
date and amount of the loan and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
(see also instructions for Schedule C-P1). NOTE: A loan guaranteed by the
candidate and any other person(s) must
be apportioned between the candidate
on Line 17(a) and the other person(s)
on Line 17(b).
LINE 19(b). Enter the total amount of
all other loans received on Line 19(b).
This category includes all other types of
loans. These loans must be itemized on
Schedule A-P, regardless of the amount.
For each loan provide the identification
(full name, mailing address and where
applicable, occupation and name of
employer) of the person making the
loan, the date and amount of the loan,
the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total and whether the loan is for a
primary, general or other election.
The committee must also provide on
Schedule C-P-1 the identification of any
endorser or guarantor and the amount of
the endorsement or guarantee (see also
instructions for Schedule C-P-1).
LINE 19(c). For Columns A, B, and C,
add Lines 19(a) and 19(b) to derive the
figures for Line 19(c).
LINE 20(a). Enter the total amount
of offsets to operating expenditures
(including refunds, rebates and
returns of deposits) on Line 20(a).
For each person who provides rebates,
refunds and other offsets to operating
expenditures aggregating in excess
of $200 during the election cycle, the
committee must provide on Schedule
A-P the identification of the person,
the date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total.
LINE 20(b). Follow the instructions for
line 20(a) to report offsets to fundraising
disbursements.
LINE 20(c). Follow the instructions for
line 20(a) to report offsets to legal and
accounting disbursements.
LINE 20(d). For Columns A, B, and
C, add Lines 20(a), 20(b) and 20(c) to
derive the figures for Line 20(d).

Page 2, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

LINE 21. Enter the total amount of other
receipts (including dividends, interest
and repayments by persons of loans
made by the committee) on Line 21. For
each person who provides any dividends,
interest or other receipts aggregating in
excess of $200 during the election cycle,
the committee must provide on Schedule
A-P the identification of the person,
the date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date totals.
LINE 22. For Columns A, B and C, add
Lines 16, 17(e), 18, 19(c), 20(d) and 21
to derive the figures for Line 22.
LINE 23. Enter the total amount of
operating expenditures on Line 23.
Examples of operating expenditures
are: media advertising, newspaper
advertising, salaries, travel, rent and
telephones. For each person who receives
payments for operating expenditures
aggregating in excess of $200 during
the election cycle, the Committee must
provide on Schedule B-P the full name
and mailing address, date, amount, and
purpose of the expenditure (see also
instructions for Schedule B-P).
LINE 24. Enter the total amount of
transfers to other authorized committees
of the same candidate on Line 24. These
transfers must be itemized on Schedule
B-P, regardless of the amount. For
each transfer, provide the full name
and mailing address of the recipient
committee, the date, amount, and state
that the purpose of the disbursement is
a “transfer.”
LINE 25. Enter the total amount of
fundraising disbursements on Line
25. For each person who receives
payments for fundraising disbursements
aggregating in excess of $200 during
the election cycle, the committee must
provide on Schedule B-P the full name
and mailing address, date, amount, and
purpose of the disbursement.
LINE 26. Enter the total amount of exempt
legal and accounting disbursements
on Line 26. For each person who
receives payments for exempt legal and
accounting disbursements aggregating

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P PAGE 3

in excess of $200 during the election
cycle, the committee must provide
on Schedule B-P the full name and
mailing address, the date and amount
of each disbursement aggregating in
excess of $200, and the purpose of the
disbursement.
LINE 27(a). Enter the total amount
of loan repayments of loans made or
guaranteed by the candidate on Line
27(a). All loan repayments must be
itemized on Schedule B-P, regardless
of the amount. For each person who
receives a loan repayment, provide
the full name, mailing address, date,
amount, and state that the purpose of the
disbursement is a “loan repayment” (see
also instructions for Schedule C-P-1).
LINE 27(b). Enter the total amount of
loan repayments of all other loans on
Line 27(b). (See instructions for Line
27(a) for other reporting requirements.)
LINE 27(c). For Columns A, B and C,
add Lines 27(a) and 27(b) to derive the
figures for Line 27(c).
LINE 28(a). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to individuals/
persons other than political committees
on Line 20(a). For each person who
receives a refund of a contribution which
was previously itemized on Schedule
A-P, the committee must provide on
Schedule B-P the full name, mailing
address, date and amount, and state
that the purpose of the disbursement is
a “contribution refund.”
LINE 28(b). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to political party
committees on Line 28(b). All such
refunds must be itemized on Schedule
B-P, regardless of the amount. For
each contribution refund, provide
the full name, mailing address, date,
amount, and state that the purpose of the
disbursement is a “contribution refund.”
LINE 28(c). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to other political
committees on Line 28(c). (See
instructions for Line 28(b) for other
reporting requirements.)

LINE 28(d). For Columns A, B and
C, add Lines 28(a), 28(b) and 28(c) to
derive the figures for Line 28(d).
LINE 29. Enter the total amount of other
disbursements on Line 29. For each
person who receives any disbursement(s)
not otherwise disclosed that aggregates
in excess of $200 during the election
cycle, the committee must provide the
full name and address of each such
person, together with the date, amount
and purpose of any such disbursement.
LINE 30. For Columns A, B and C, add
the totals on Lines 23, 24, 25, 26, 27(c),
28(d) and 29 to derive the figures for
Line 30.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PART III
For this report only, substitute Part III
of the Post-Election Detailed Summary
Page, Page 3, in lieu of Line 14 of the
Summary Page. Do not complete Line
14 of the Summary Page for this report.
To derive the Columns A, B and C totals
for Part III, subtract the totals listed
above in Line 28(d) from those listed
for Line 17(e).
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PART IV
For this report only, substitute this
part in lieu of Line 15 of the Summary
Page. Do not complete Line 15 of the
Summary Page for this report. To derive
the Columns A, B and C totals for Part
IV, subtract the totals listed above in
Line 20(a) from those listed in line 23.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PART V
LINE 31 Enter the total amount
of items on hand to be liquidated on
Line 31. This category is comprised of
contributions received by the committee
in the form of stocks, bonds, art objects
and other similar items to be liquidated.
The amount of such items on hand at
the close of the reporting period must
be disclosed on Line 31. For additional
information regarding disclosure of
these items, see 11 CFR 104.13(b).

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 3

