INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L

Federal Election Commission

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L
This form implements disclosure
requirements set forth in 2 U.S.C.
434(i) and 11 CFR 104.22.
Who Must File

Form 3L is filed by authorized committees of federal candidates, political
party committees and Leadership
PACs (collectively “reporting committees”) that receive certain bundled
contributions from lobbyists/registrants and lobbyist/registrant PACs.
Note: Political committees (except
for principal campaign committees of Senate candidates and other
political committees that support or
oppose only Senate candidates) must
file reports in an electronic format if
they have either received contributions or made expenditures in excess
of $50,000 during a calendar year, or
if they have reason to expect that they
will exceed either of those thresholds
during the calendar year.
A committee is considered to have
reason to expect it will exceed the electronic filing threshold for the following
two calendar years after the calendar
year in which it exceeds $50,000 in
contributions or expenditures.
A new committee with no previous
contributions or expenditures is considered to have reason to expect it will
exceed the electronic filing threshold if
it exceeds $12,500 in contributions or
expenditures during the first quarter
of the calendar year, or $25,000 in
contributions or expenditures in the
first half of the calendar year.
If the committee has exceeded or
expects to exceed this level of activity,
DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON
PAPER. Instead, you must file this
form in an electronic format.
Contact the FEC for more information on filing electronically.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/09)

When to File

Reporting committees generally
file FEC Form 3L according to their
regular quarterly or monthly schedule. Reports filed in January and July
also cover the semi-annual period. A
reporting committee must file FEC
Form 3L for a covered period if
within that covered period it receives
two or more bundled contributions
forwarded by, or credited to, a lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant
PAC, and the contributions aggregate
in excess of the reporting threshold.
For calendar year 2009 that threshold
is $16,000, per lobbyist/registrant or
lobbyist/registrant PAC, per covered
period.
Authorized Committees of House
and Senate Candidates: A House or
Senate campaign committee with
bundled contributions in excess of the
reporting threshold during the covered
period files FEC Form 3L at the same
time as its FEC Form 3.
In any calendar year in which there
is a “regular” November general election for which the candidate is seeking
nomination for election or election,
the reporting deadlines for an authorized committee’s covered periods are
as follows:
•Reports for the quarterly covered
periods are filed no later than April
15, July 15, October 15 of that election year and January 31 of the following calendar year. These reports
are required if the committee receives
bundled contributions in excess of
the reporting threshold during the
quarter. Quarterly reports filed on
July 15 and January 31 must also disclose total reportable bundled contributions for the semi-annual covered
periods of January 1 through June
30, and July 1 through December 31,
respectively. A quarterly report need
not be filed if a Pre-Election report is
filed during the period beginning on

the 5th day and ending on the 15th
day after the close of the calendar
quarter.
•Reports for the 12-Day Pre-Election
covered period include activity from
the day after the closing date of the
last report filed through the 20th day
before the election and are filed no
later than the 12th day before any
primary or general election in which
the candidate seeks election. These
reports are required if the committee receives bundled contributions
in excess of the reporting threshold
during the pre-election covered
period. A 12-Day Pre-Election
report sent by certified or registered
mail must be mailed no later than the
15th day before the election.
•Reports for the 30-Day Post-General
Election covered period include
activity from the day after the closing
date of the last report filed through
the 20th day after the election and are
filed no later than 30 days after the
general election. These reports are
required if the committee receives
bundled contributions in excess of
the reporting threshold during the
post-election covered period.
In any other calendar year, reports
for the quarterly covered periods are
filed no later than April 15, July 15,
October 15 of that calendar year and
January 31 of the following calendar
year. These reports are required if the
committee receives bundled contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the quarter. Quarterly
reports filed on July 15 and January
31 must also disclose total reportable
bundled contributions for the semiannual covered periods of January 1
through June 30, and July 1 through
December 31, respectively.
Political Party Committees and
Leadership PACs: A party committee or Leadership PAC with bundled
contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during a covered period
1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L
files FEC Form 3L at the same time as
its FEC Form 3X. However, reporting
committees that file Form 3X on a
monthly basis may choose to follow
a quarterly schedule for filing Form
3L.
(A) Quarterly/Semi-annual Schedule. In any calendar year in which
there is a “regular” November general
election, the reporting deadlines for a
political party committee or Leadership PAC’s covered periods are as
follows:
•Reports for the quarterly covered
periods are filed no later than April
15, July 15, October 15 of that
election year and January 31 of
the following calendar year. These
reports are required if the reporting
committee receives bundled contributions in excess of the reporting
threshold during the quarter. Quarterly reports filed on July 15 and
January 31 must also disclose total
reportable bundled contributions for
the semi-annual covered periods of
January 1 through June 30, and July
1 through December 31, respectively.
A quarterly report need not be filed if
a Pre-Election report is filed during
the period beginning on the 5th day
and ending on the 15th day after the
close of the calendar quarter.
•Pre-Election reports include activity
from the day after the closing date of
the last report filed through the 20th
day before the election and are filed
no later than the 12th day before any
primary or general election. These
reports are required if the committee receives bundled contributions
in excess of the reporting threshold
during the covered period. A 12-Day
Pre-Election report sent by certified
or registered mail must be mailed
no later than the 15th day before the
election.
•A 30-Day Post-General Election
Report includes activity from the
day after the closing date of the last
report filed through the 20th day
after the election and must be filed
no later than 30 days after the general
election. These reports are required
if the reporting committee receives
2	

bundled contributions in excess of
the reporting threshold for the postelection covered period.
In any other calendar year, the
following reports are required if the
reporting committee receives bundled
contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the covered
period:
•A Mid-Year Report must be filed no
later than July 31 of that non-election year and disclose total reportable bundled contributions for the
covered period beginning January 1
and ending June 30.
•A Year-End Report must be filed no
later than January 31 of the following calendar year and disclose total
reportable bundled contributions for
the covered period beginning July 1
and ending December 31.
(B) Monthly Schedule. Reports for
the monthly covered periods must be
filed no later than 20 days after the
last day of the month. These reports
are required if the reporting committee receives bundled contributions
in excess of the reporting threshold
during the month. Monthly reports
filed on July 20 and January 31 must
also disclose total reportable bundled
contributions for the semi-annual
covered periods of January 1 through
June 30, and July 1 through December 31, respectively. In lieu of the
Monthly reports due in November
and December for a year in which
there is a “regular” November general election, a 12-Day Pre-General
Election Report must be filed if the
reporting committee receives bundled
contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the pre-election
covered period (i.e., from the day after
the closing date of the last report
filed through the 20th day before the
election). A 30-Day Post-General
Election Report must be filed if the
reporting committee receives bundled
contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the post-general
election covered period (i.e., from the
day after the closing date of the last
report filed through the 20th day after
the election). A Year-End Report must
be filed no later than January 31 of the

following calendar year if the reporting committee receives bundled contributions in excess of the reporting
threshold during the covered period
beginning the day after the closing
date of the Post-General Election
Report through December 31.
Authorized Committees of Presidential Candidates: A Presidential
campaign committee with bundled
contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the covered
period files FEC Form 3L at the same
time as its FEC Form 3P. However,
reporting committees that file Form
3P on a monthly basis may choose to
follow a quarterly schedule for filing
Form 3L.
(A) Quarterly Schedule. The reporting deadlines for a Presidential committee’s quarterly covered periods are
as follows:
•Reports for the quarterly covered
periods are filed no later than April
15, July 15, October 15 of that calendar year and January 31 of the following calendar year. These reports
are required if the committee receives
bundled contributions in excess of
the reporting threshold during the
quarter. Quarterly reports filed on
July 15 and January 31 must also disclose total reportable bundled contributions for the semi-annual covered
periods of January 1 through June
30, and July 1 through December 31,
respectively. A quarterly report need
not be filed if a Pre-Election report is
required to be filed during the period
beginning on the 5th day and ending
on the 15th day after the close of the
calendar quarter.
•Reports for the 12-Day Pre-Election
covered period include activity from
the day after the closing date of the
last report filed through the 20th day
before the election and are filed no
later than the 12th day before any
primary or general election in which
the candidate seeks election. These
reports are required if the committee receives bundled contributions
in excess of the reporting threshold
during the pre-election covered
period. A 12-Day Pre-Election
report sent by certified or registered
Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/09)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L
mail must be mailed no later than the
15th day before the election.
•Reports for the 30-Day Post-General
Election covered period include
activity from the day after the closing
date of the last report filed through
the 20th day after the election and are
filed no later than 30 days after the
general election. These reports are
required if the committee receives
bundled contributions in excess of
the reporting threshold during the
post-election covered period.
In any other calendar year, reports
for the quarterly covered periods are
filed no later than April 15, July 15,
October 15 of that calendar year, and
January 31 of the following calendar
year. These reports are required if the
committee receives bundled contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the quarter. Quarterly
reports filed on July 15 and January
31 must also disclose total reportable
bundled contributions for the semiannual covered periods of January 1
through June 30, and July 1 through
December 31, respectively.
(B) Monthly Schedule. Reports for
the monthly covered periods must be
filed no later than 20 days after the
last day of the month. These reports
are required if the reporting committee
receives bundled contributions in excess
of the reporting threshold during the
month. Monthly reports filed on July
20 and January 31 must also disclose
total reportable bundled contributions
for the semi-annual covered periods of
January 1 through June 30, and July
1 through December 31, respectively.
In lieu of the Monthly reports due in
November and December for a year in
which there is a “regular” November
general election, a 12-Day Pre-General
Election Report must be filed if the
reporting committee receives bundled
contributions in excess of the reporting threshold during the pre-election
covered period (i.e., from the day after
the closing date of the last report
filed through the 20th day before the
election). A 30-Day Post-General
Election Report must be filed if the
reporting committee receives bundled
contributions in excess of the reportFederal Election Commission (Revised 03/09)

ing threshold during the post-election
covered period (i.e., from the day after
the closing date of the last report filed
through the 20th day after the election).
A Year-End Report must be filed no
later than January 31 of the following
calendar year if the reporting committee received bundled contributions
in excess of the reporting threshold
during the covered period that runs
from the day after the closing date
of the Post-General Election Report
through December 31.
Overlapping Covered Periods: An
FEC Form 3L filed in July or January may cover more than one covered
period. As such, reporting committees must calculate the total amount
of bundled contributions received
for each covered period to determine
whether a Form 3L is necessary. If,
for example, a reporting committee receives bundled contributions
exceeding the reporting threshold
for the January 1 through June 30
semi-annual covered period, then the
reporting committee must file Form
3L in July and report information
about those contributions, even if the
reporting committee did not receive
bundled contributions exceeding the
reporting threshold for the committee’s quarterly, monthly, pre- or postelection covered period.
Timely Filed: A document is timely
filed upon delivery to the appropriate
office (see “Where to File”) by the close
of the prescribed filing deadline or
upon deposit as registered or certified
mail in an established U.S. Post Office
and postmarked no later than midnight
of the day the report is due, except that
a Pre-Election report so mailed must
be postmarked no later than midnight
of the 15th day before the date of the
election. Reports and statements sent
by first class mail must be received by
the appropriate office by the close of
business of the prescribed filing deadline to be timely filed. Reports filed
electronically must be received and
validated by the Commission’s computer system on or before 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard/Daylight Savings
Time on the prescribed filing deadline
in order to be timely filed.

Changing Filing Frequency: A
reporting committee may elect to
change the frequency of its reporting
on FEC Form 3L to quarterly from
monthly, or vice versa. A reporting committee may change its filing
frequency only after notifying the
Commission in writing of its intention at the time it is scheduled to
submit a report under its current filing
frequency. The reporting committee
will then be required to file the next
required report under its new filing
frequency. A reporting committee may
change its filing frequency no more
than once per calendar year.
Where to File

An original report and any amendments to an original report must be
filed as follows:
•Political party committees, Leadership PACs and the principal campaign committee of a candidate
for the Presidency or the House of
Representatives file with the Federal
Election Commission, 999 E Street,
NW, Washington, DC 20463. Other
authorized committees of the candidate file with the principal campaign
committee.
•Committees supporting/opposing
only Senate candidates, including
the principal campaign committee of
a candidate for the Senate, file with
the Secretary of the Senate, Office
of Public Records, 232 Hart Senate
Office Building, Washington, DC
20510-7116. Mail addressed to the
Secretary of the Senate should read:
“Office of Public Records, P.O. Box
77578, Washington, DC 20013-7578.”
Other authorized committees of
the candidate file with the principal
campaign committee.
A copy of each report need only
be filed with the Secretary of State
(or appropriate State officer) of the
state in which nomination or election
is sought if that state has not qualified for the Commission’s state filing
waiver. A list of qualified states is
available from the Federal Election
Commission.
3

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L
Line-by-Line Instructions

LINE 1. Enter the complete name
and mailing address of the reporting
committee.

or post-election covered period, if
applicable. In box 7(b), enter the total
amount of bundled contributions for
the January – June or July – December
semi-annual period, if applicable.

LINE 2. Enter the FEC Identification
Number assigned to the reporting
committee.
LINE 3. If this is an original report,
check the “NEW” box. If this is an
amendment to a previous report,
check the “AMENDED” box.
LINE 4. Authorized committees of
House and Senate candidates enter
the state and district (as necessary)
in which the candidate is running for
office. Presidential campaigns, Leadership PACs and political party committees should leave this line blank.
LINE 5. Check the appropriate box.
If the report is a 12-Day Pre-Election
or 30-Day Post-General Election
Report, supply the type of election
(primary, general, convention, special
or runoff), the date of the election and
the state in which the election is held.
If the Pre- or Post-Election Report is
due in July or January and your July
15 Quarterly or Year-End Report has
been waived, check the box to indicate
that this report also covers the semiannual covered period.
LINE 6. Enter the coverage dates
(month/day/year) for this report. If
this report is being filed in July or
January, you may need to enter the
dates for the quarterly, monthly, preor post-election covered period on 6(a)
and/or check the January 1 – June 30
or July 1 – December 31 box on 6(b),
as appropriate.
LINE 7. Enter the total amount of
bundled contributions received in
each covered period identified in Line
6. Reports filed in July and January
may include activity from two covered
periods—(1) the committee’s regular
quarterly or monthly reporting period,
the pre-election covered period, or the
post-election covered period; and (2)
the semi-annual covered period. In
box 7(a), enter the total amount of
bundled contributions received during
the quarterly, monthly, pre-election,
4	

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/09)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE A (FEC FORM 3L)
Reportable Bundled
Contributions Forwarded
by or Credited to Lobbyists/
Registrants and Lobbyist/
Registrant PACs
For each lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC that forwards,
or is credited with raising more
than $16,000 in bundled contributions during the covered period, the
reporting committee must provide
the bundler’s name, address and the
aggregate amount of contributions
bundled during the covered period.1
On reports filed in July and January,
use the “Reportable Bundled Contributions during the Semi-annual Covered Period” box to disclose aggregate
amounts for the January 1-June 30 or
July 1-December 31 covered period,
as appropriate. On other reports,
disclose the aggregate amount for
each lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/
registrant PAC in the “Reportable
Bundled Contributions during the
Quarterly/Monthly/Pre-Election or
Post-Election Covered Period” box.
If the lobbyist/registrant is an individual, the reporting committee must
also identify his/her employer. When
disclosing bundled contributions forwarded by, or credited to, a lobbyist/
registrant PAC, the reporting committee should enter the lobbyist/registrant
PAC’s FEC Identification Number.
(This number is readily available from
the Commission’s web site or its Public

Disclosure Division.) Do not abbreviate committee names.
The Total reported amounts (the
last line on Schedule A) should be
transferred to the comparable spaces
on Line 7, Total Reportable Bundled
Contributions by Lobbyists/Registrants and Lobbyist/Registrant PACs.
Do not subtract the Total Refunds
This Period disclosed on Schedule B
(if any).
Memo Text: A committee may, if
it chooses, attach a cover letter or
memo text to provide any additional
information supporting or explaining
the entries on Form 3L

1 The Commission notes that the reporting
requirements of Form 3L operate independently
of the prohibitions in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, and Commission regulations on certain entities making and
facilitating contributions and acting as conduits or
intermediaries. A registrant that is a corporation,
for example, would be prohibited from facilitating
the making of contributions by persons outside of
the corporationSection 1 s restricted class. But if
a reporting committee nonetheless credits the corporation for having raised contributions received
by that reporting committee, and the amount of
contributions exceeds the reporting threshold in a
covered period, information about the corporate
registrant must be reported

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/09)

5

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3L

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE B (FEC FORM 3L)
Refunds of Bundled
Contributions Forwarded
by or Credited to Lobbyists/
Registrants and Lobbyist/
Registrant PACs
Reporting committees use Schedule B of Form 3L solely to disclose
refunds of bundled contributions
raised by a lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC.
Returned vs. Refunded
Contributions

If a bundled contribution is not
deposited and is instead returned,
then it does not aggregate toward the
reporting threshold for disclosure of
bundled contributions and it does not
need to be reported on FEC Form 3L.
By contrast, bundled contributions
that are received, deposited and later
refunded do aggregate toward the
reporting threshold for the covered
period in which they were received,
and must be reported if the reporting
threshold is exceeded for that covered
period.
Reporting Refunds

When the receipt of the bundled
contribution is reported on Form
3L, then the refund of the bundled
contribution should also be reported
on Form 3L for the covered period in
which the refund occurred.
For each refund issued during the
covered period, provide the full name
and mailing address of the lobbyist/
registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC
that forwarded, or was credited with
raising, the contribution and the
amount. (Report the refund to the
contributor on Schedule B of Form
3, 3P or 3X, as appropriate.) On
reports filed in July and January, use
the Refunds of Bundled Contributions during the Semi-annual Covered
Period box to disclose aggregate
amounts for the January 1-June 30 or
July 1-December 31 covered period,
as appropriate.
6	

The Form 3L disclosure threshold for 2009 is $16,000 per covered
period. Once a reporting committeeSection 1 s bundled contributions
from a lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/
registrant PAC exceed that threshold,
the committee must file Form 3L for
that covered period, regardless of
any refunds it may have made. For
example, on August 20, 2009, a lobbyist forwards $17,000 in bundled
contributions to a reporting committee that files quarterly. The committee deposits the checks, but refunds
all of the contributions a week later.
On September 15, the same lobbyist
forwards an additional $15,000 in
bundled contributions. Since total
bundled contributions attributed to
the lobbyist on August 20 exceeded
the $16,000 disclosure threshold, the
committee must report all bundled
contributions from that lobbyist
during that quarterly covered period.
As such, on Schedule A, the committee lists $32,000 ($17,000 + $15,000)
on Schedule A as the Reportable
Bundled Contributions during the
Quarterly/Monthly/Pre-Election or
Post-Election Covered Period on its
October 15 Form 3L. The $17,000
refund would appear in the Refunds
of Bundled Contributions during
the Quarterly/Monthly/Pre-Election
or Post-Election Covered Period on
Schedule B of that report.
On November 2, the same lobbyist forwards an additional $10,000 in
bundled contributions, but does nothing more for the balance of the year.
Based on that activity alone, the committee would not need to file a Form
3L for the fourth quarter. However,
the committee must file a Year-End
Report because its reportable bundled
contributions for the overlapping
semi-annual period (i.e., from July
1 through December 31) exceed
the reporting threshold. On Form
3L Schedule A, the committee lists
$42,000 ($17,000 + $15,000 + $10,000)
as the Reportable Bundled Contributions during the Semi-annual Covered
Period. On Schedule B, the $17,000
refund would appear in the Refunds
of Bundled Contributions during the
Semi-annual Covered Period. Since

the total fourth quarter bundled contributions attributed to the lobbyist
did not exceed $16,000, the committee
may enter $0 on Schedule A as the
Reportable Bundled Contributions
during the Quarterly/Monthly/PreElection or Post-Election Covered
Period or leave that box blank.
The amount refunded, as reported
on Schedule B of Form 3L will not
affect the total amount of bundled
contributions received by the reporting committee, as reported on Schedule A of Form 3L or in Box 7 on page
1 of Form 3L.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/09)

