INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Federal Election Commission

Report of Receipts and Disbursements by an Authorized Committee of
a Candidate for the Office of President or Vice President
(FEC DISCLOSURE FORM 3P)
Use FEC FORM 3P to file your report.
Listed below are the summary pages
and schedules of FEC FORM 3P, with
an explanation of what each discloses.
Detailed instructions are included on the
back of each form. These forms may be
duplicated.
FEC FORM 3P: Page 1, Summary
Page
Identifies the committee; discloses
the committee’s total receipts and
disbursements for the reporting period
and the aggregate election cycle- todate.
FEC FORM 3P: Page 2, Detailed
Summary Page
Summarizes receipts and
disbursements by type of activity;
shows reporting period and aggregate
election cycle-to-date totals for each
type of activity.
FEC FORM 3P: Page 4,
Allocation of Primary
Expenditures by State for a
Presidential Candidate
Summarizes the allocation of primary
expenditures by state; shows reporting
period and campaign-to-date totals; to
be used only by Presidential candidates
receiving federal funds.
FEC FORM 3P: Worksheet to
Calculate Expenditures Subject
to Overall Limitation of 2 u.S.C.
§ 441a(b)(1)(A)
Provides guidance concerning the
calculation of the amount to be reported
on Line 13 of FEC FORM 3P, Page
1. This worksheet must be retained to
support, in part, the amount reported
on Line 13.

FEC FORM 3P: Schedules
A-P:	 Provides detailed information
for each receipt that is required
to be itemized. Use a separate
Schedule A-P to support each
line number that appears on the
Detailed Summary Page.
B-P:	 Provides detailed information
for each disbursement that is
required to be itemized. Use a
separate Schedule B-P to support
each line number that appears on
the Detailed Summary Page.
C-P:	 Shows all loans, endorsements
and loan guarantees the
committee receives or makes.
C-P-1:	Shows all loans and lines of credit
made by lending institutions to
the committee.
D-P:	 Shows debts and obligations
owed to or by the committee that
are required to be disclosed.
Other Forms and Their Uses The forms
listed below are also available. When
ordering, please order by form number.
FEC FORM 3P: Page 3, PostElection Detailed Summary Page
Used for the reporting period that
includes the general election, in lieu of
the Detailed Summary Page and portions
of the Summary Page. Summarizes
receipts and disbursements by type of
activity; shows reporting period and
both current and upcoming election
cycle to date totals for each type of
activity.
FEC FORM 2: Statement of
Candidacy
Used by the candidate to designate a
Principal Campaign Committee; and, if
applicable, to designate other authorized
committees to receive and expend funds
on his or her behalf.

FEC FORM 1: Statement of
Organization
Used by all political committees to
register under the federal election law.
FEC FORM 8: Debt Settlement
Plan
Used by terminating committees to
disclose the terms of debt settlements.
Illegible and Non-FEC Forms
Illegible reports and reports submitted
on non-FEC forms are not acceptable
and must be refiled.
Electronic Filing
Committees must file reports in an
electronic format under 11 CFR 104.18
if they have either received contributions
or made expenditures in excess of
$50,000 during the calendar year, or
if they have reason to expect that they
will exceed either of those thresholds. If
the committee has reached this level of
activity, DO NOT FILE THIS FORM
ON PAPER. Instead, you must file this
form in an electronic format. See the
instructions for more information on
filing electronically.
Computerized Filing
FEC FORM 3P may be filed
in a computerized format, but the
Commission must approve the
computerized format before the report
is filed. Submit sample formats to the
Reports Analysis Division.
Faxing Forms
Reports may not be filed by FAX
because original signatures are required.
To request additional forms, call the
Information Division at 800/424-9530
or 202/694-1100.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC
FORM 3P
WHO MUST FILE
All political committees authorized
in writing by a candidate for the Office
of President or Vice President must file
reports of receipts and disbursements on
FEC Form 3P, whether or not publicly
funded. A political committee that is
the authorized committee of candidates
for both offices shall also use FEC
Form 3P. NOTE: Committees must file
reports in an electronic format if they
have received contributions or made
expenditures in excess of $50,000
during a calendar year, or if they have
reason to expect that they will exceed
either of those thresholds during the
calendar year. If the committee has
reached this level of activity, DO NOT
FILE THIS FORM ON PAPER. Instead,
you must file this form in an electronic
format.
An authorized committee is
considered to have reason to expect
it will exceed the electronic filing
threshold for the following two calendar
years after the calendar year in which
it exceeds $50,000 in contributions or
expenditures. Exception: This does not
apply to an authorized committee with
$50,000 or less in net debts outstanding
on January 1 of the year following
the general election that anticipates
terminating prior to January 1 of the next
election year, as long as the candidate
has not qualified as a candidate in the
next election and does not intend to
become a federal candidate in the next
election.
A new authorized committee with
no previous receipts or expenditures is
considered to have reason to expect it
will exceed the electronic filing threshold
if it exceeds $12,500 in contributions or
expenditures during the first calendar
quarter of the calendar year, or $25,000
in contributions or expenditures in the
first half of the calendar year.
Contact the FEC for more information
on filing electronically.

WHEN TO FILE
Election Year
If on January 1 of the election year the
committee has received or anticipates
receiving contributions aggregating
$100,000 or more, or makes or
anticipates making expenditures of
$100,000 or more, it shall file:
•	 A monthly report no later than the
20th day after the last day of the
previous month which shall be
complete as of the last day of that
month.
•	 A 12 Day Pre-Election Report no later
than the 12th day before the general
election in which the candidate
seeks election and must include all
transactions from the closing date of
the last report filed through the 20th
day before the election. A 12 Day
Pre- Election Report sent by certified
or registered mail must be mailed
no later than the 15th day before the
election.
•	 A 30 Day Post-General Election
Report no later than 30 days after
the general election and must include
transactions from the closing date of
the last report filed through the 20th
day after the general election.
•	 A year-end report which must include
all transactions from the closing
date of the last report filed through
December 31, and be filed no later
than January 31 of the following
calendar year.
The 12 Day Pre-Election, 30 Day
Post-General Election, and year-end
reports are filed in lieu of monthly
reports for November and December.
If on January 1 of the election year the
committee does not anticipate receiving
contributions aggregating $100,000 or
more, or does not anticipate making
expenditures of $100,000 or more, it
shall file:
•	 A quarterly report no later than April
15, July 15, October 15, and January
31. The report shall be complete as of
the last day of the previous calendar
quarter.
•	 A 12 Day Pre-Election Report no

Page 2, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

later than the 12th day before any
election in which the candidate
seeks nomination or election and
must include all transactions from
the closing date of the last report
filed through the 20th day before the
election.
•	 A 30 Day Post-General Election
Report filed no later than 30 days
after the general election and must
include transactions from the closing
date of the last report filed through
the 20th day after the general election
If the committee receives contributions
aggregating $100,000 or more, or makes
expenditures aggregating $100,000 or
more, the treasurer shall begin filing
monthly reports at the next reporting
period.
Non-Election Year
During a non-election year the
treasurer shall file either monthly or
quarterly reports.
Timely Filing
A document is timely filed upon
delivery to the appropriate office
(see “Where to File”) by the close
of the prescribed filing date or upon
deposit as registered or certified mail
in an established U.S. Post Office and
postmarked no later than midnight of
the day the report is due, except that a
Pre- Election Report so mailed must be
postmarked no later than midnight of the
15th day before the date of the election.
(The same is true for priority or express
mail with delivery confirmation or an
overnight mail service that offers online tracking.) Reports and statements
sent by first class mail must be received
by the appropriate office by the close
of business of the prescribed filing
date to be timely filed. Reports filed
electronically must be received and
validated by the Commission’s computer
system on or before 11:59 p.m. Eastern
Standard/ Daylight Savings Time on
the prescribed filing date in order to be
considered timely filed.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

WHERE TO FILE
All reports and any amendments to
reports must be filed in original form
with the Federal Election Commission,
999 E Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
20463. Principal campaign committees
of Presidential candidates making
expenditures in states that have qualified
for the Commission’s state filing waiver
program are not required to file copies of
their reports and statements with those
states. All states and most territories
have qualified for a filing waiver. A
complete list of qualified states and
territories is available from the Federal
Election Commission.
TREASURER’S
RESPONSIBILITY
A copy of this report shall be
preserved by the treasurer of the political
committee for a period of not less than
3 years after the report was filed. The
treasurer of the political committee is
responsible for the timely and complete
filing of the report and for the accuracy
of any information contained in it.
ELECTION CYCLE REPORTING
Authorized committees must report
receipts and disbursements on an
election-cycle basis. The election cycle
for disclosure purposes begins the day
after the previous general election for
a seat or office, and ends on the day of
the next general election for that seat or
office. See 11 CFR 100.3(b).
REPORT PREPARATION
•	 The reporting schedules should be
filled out first so that the totals can
be derived for each category.
•	 The total figures should be carried
forward to the Detailed Summary
Page and then (where appropriate)
from the Detailed Summary Page to
the Summary Page.

along with the reports of the principal
campaign committee.
LINE BY LINE INSTRUCTIONS
FOR SUMMARY PAGE
LINE 1. Print or type the complete name
and mailing address of your committee.
LINE 2. Enter the FEC Identification
Number assigned to the committee.
LINE 3. Check the appropriate box(es)
to indicate which election(s) are covered
by this report. For example, if a political
committee is raising funds to pay off
primary debts and simultaneously
raising funds for the general election,
check both the “Primary Election” box
and the “General Election” box.
LINE 4(a). Check the appropriate box
for “Type of Report.”
LINE 4(b). If this is an original report,
check the “NO” box. If this is an
amendment to a previous report, check
the “YES” box.
LINE 5. Enter the coverage dates (day/
month/year) for this report. All activity
from the ending coverage date of the last
report filed must be included.
LINE 6. Enter the total amount of
cash on hand at the beginning of the
reporting period. This amount includes:
currency; balance on deposit in banks,
savings and loan institutions and other
depository institutions; certificates of
deposit, traveler’s checks owned by
the committee, treasury bills and other
committee investments valued at cost.

LINE 11. Transfer the total amount
of debts and obligations owed TO the
committee from Schedule C-P and D-P.
LINE 12. Transfer the total amount
of debts and obligations owed BY the
committee from Schedule C-P and D-P.
LINE 13. Transfer the total amount of
expenditures subject to limitation from
FEC Form 3P, Worksheet, item P.
LINE 14. Subtract the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total of contribution
refunds, (Page 2, Form 3P, Line 28d,
Column B), from the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total of contributions
(Page 2, Form 3P, Line 17e, Column B)
to arrive at net contributions on Line 14.
LINE 15. Subtract the aggregate
election cycle-to-date total of offsets
to expenditures for operating expenses
(Page 2, Form 3P, Line 20(a), Column
B), from the aggregate election cycleto- date total of operating expenditures
(Page 2, Form 3P, Line 23, Column B).
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS
FOR REPORT THAT COVERS
GENERAL ELECTION DAY
For this report ONLY, principal
campaign committees must fill out
Parts III and V on Page 3 (Post-Election
Detailed Summary Page) in lieu of filling
out Lines 14 and 15 on the Summary
Page. This requirement applies to the
reporting period that includes the date
of the general election.

LINE 7. Transfer the amount from Page
2, Form 3P, Column A of Line 22 to
Line 7.
LINE 8. Add Lines 6 and 7 to derive the
figure for Line 8.

•	 The Detailed Summary Page should
be filled out before completing the
Summary Page.

LINE 9. Transfer the amount from Page
2, Form 3P, Column A of Line 30 to
Line 9.

•	 Report s prepared by other political
committees authorized by the
candidate are required to be filed

LINE 10. Subtract Line 9 from Line 8 to
derive cash on hand at the close of the
reporting period for Line 10.
Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 3

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC
FORM 3P, PAGE 2
An authorized committee must
report the total amount of receipts and
disbursements during the reporting
period and during the election cycle
on FEC Form 3P. FEC Form 3P, page
2 (Detailed Summary of Receipts and
Disbursements) is broken down into
various categories of receipts and
disbursements. Use Schedule A-P or
Schedule B-P to list each receipt or
disbursement required to be itemized.
The total for each category (“Total This
Period” from Schedule A-P or Schedule
B-P) should then be added to unitemized
receipts or disbursements for that
category, and entered on the appropriate
line of the detailed summary. If there
are no receipts or disbursements for a
particular category for a reporting period
or election cycle, enter “0.”
To derive the “election cycle-to-date”
figure for each category, the political
committee should add the “election
cycle-to-date” total from the previous
report to the “Total This Period” from
Column A for the current report. For the
first report filed for a election cycle, the
“election cycle-to-date” figure is equal
to the “Total This Period” figure.
LINE 16. Enter total amount of federal
funds received by the committee during
the reporting period. These receipts must
be itemized on Schedule A-P regardless
of the amount.
LINE 17(a)(i). Enter the total amount
of itemized contributions (other than
loans) from individuals/persons other
than political committees on Line 17(a)
(i). Each contribution made by a person
who has made one or more contributions
during the election cycle aggregating
in excess of $200 must be itemized
on Schedule A-P. The committee must
provide the identification (full name,
mailing address, occupation and name
of employer) of the person, the date and
amount of each contribution aggregating
in excess of $200, the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total and whether the

contribution is for a primary, general or
other election. LINE 17(a)(ii) Enter the
total amount of unitemized contributions
(other than loans) from individuals/
persons other than political committees
on Line 17(a)(ii). LINE 17(a)(iii) For
Columns A, B, and C, add Lines 17(a)
(i) and 17(a)(ii) to derive figures for
Line 17(a)(iii).

the same candidate must be included on
this line and not on Line 19(b). These
transfers must be itemized on Schedule
A-P, regardless of the amount. For
each transfer, provide the identification
(full name and mailing address) of the
committee, the date and amount of
the transfer and the aggregate election
cycle- to-date total.

LINE 17(b). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
political party committees on Line
17(b). These contributions must be
itemized on Schedule A-P regardless
of the amount. For each contribution,
provide the identification (full name
and address) of the committee, the date
and amount of the contribution, the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
and whether the contribution is for a
primary, general or other election.

LINE 19(a). Enter the total amount
of loans made or guaranteed by the
candidate on Line 19(a). This category
includes personal loans from the
candidate and loans from lending
institutions which are secured, endorsed
or guaranteed by the candidate and
used in connection with the candidate’s
campaign for Federal office. All loans
made, guaranteed or endorsed by the
candidate must be itemized on Schedule
A-P, regardless of the amount. For each
loan, provide the identification of the
candidate (full name, mailing address,
occupation and name of employer), the
date and amount of the loan and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total
(see also instructions for Schedule C-P1). NOTE: A loan guaranteed by the
candidate and any other person(s) must
be apportioned between the candidate
on Line 17(a) and the other person(s)
on Line 17(b).

LINE 17(c). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from
other political committees on Line 17(c).
These contributions must be itemized on
Schedule A-P regardless of the amount.
For each contribution, include the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total,
and whether the contribution is for a
primary, general or other election. Do
not abbreviate committee names.
LINE 17(d). Enter the total amount of
contributions (other than loans) from the
candidate on Line 17(d). If the candidate
makes one or more contributions during
the election cycle aggregating in excess
of $200, the committee must provide on
Schedule A- P the identification of the
candidate (full name, mailing address,
occupation and name of employer), the
date and amount of each contribution
aggregating in excess of $200, and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date totals.
LINE 17(e). For both Column A and
Column B, add Lines 17(a)(iii), 17(b),
17(c) and 17(d) to derive figures for
Line 17(e).
LINE 18. Enter the total amount
of transfers from other authorized
committees of the same candidate.
Loans and loan repayments received
from other authorized committees of

Page 4, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

LINE 19(b). Enter the total amount of
all other loans received on Line 19(b).
This category includes all other types of
loans. These loans must be itemized on
Schedule A-P, regardless of the amount.
For each loan provide the identification
(full name, mailing address and where
applicable, occupation and name of
employer) of the person making the
loan, the date and amount of the loan,
the aggregate election cycle-to-date
total and whether the loan is for a
primary, general or other election.
The committee must also provide on
Schedule C-P-1 the identification of any
endorser or guarantor and the amount of
the endorsement or guarantee (see also
instructions for Schedule C-P-1).
LINE 19(c). For both Column A and
Column B, add Lines 19(a) and 19(b) to
derive the figures for Line 19(c).

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

LINE 20(a). Enter the total amount
of offsets to operating expenditures
(including refunds, rebates and
returns of deposits) on Line 20(a).
For each person who provides rebates,
refunds and other offsets to operating
expenditures aggregating in excess
of $200 during the election cycle, the
committee must provide on Schedule
A-P the identification of the person,
the date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date total.
LINE 20(b). Follow the instructions for
line 20(a) to report offsets to fundraising
disbursements.
LINE 20(c). Follow the instructions for
line 20(a) to report offsets to legal and
accounting disbursements.
LINE 20(d). For both Column A and
Column B, add Lines 20(a), 20(b) and
20(c) to derive the figures for Line 20(d).
LINE 21. Enter the total amount of other
receipts (including dividends, interest
and repayments by persons of loans
made by the committee) on Line 21. For
each person who provides any dividends,
interest or other receipts aggregating in
excess of $200 during the election cycle,
the committee must provide on Schedule
A-P the identification of the person,
the date and amount of each receipt
aggregating in excess of $200 and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date totals.
LINE 22. For both Column A and
Column B, add Lines 16, 17(e), 18,
19(c), 20(d) and 21 to derive the figures
for Line 22.
LINE 23. Enter the total amount of
operating expenditures on Line 23.
Examples of operating expenditures
are: media advertising, newspaper
advertising, salaries, travel, rent and
telephones. For each person who receives
payments for operating expenditures
aggregating in excess of $200 during
the election cycle, the Committee must
provide on Schedule B- P the full name
and mailing address, date, amount and
purpose of the expenditure (see also
instructions for Schedule B-P).

LINE 24. Enter the total amount of
transfers to other authorized committees
of the same candidate on Line 24. These
transfers must be itemized on Schedule
B-P, regardless of the amount. For
each transfer, provide the full name
and mailing address of the recipient
committee, date and amount, and state
that the purpose of the disbursement is
a “transfer.”
LINE 25. Enter the total amount of
fundraising disbursements on Line
25. For each person who receives
payments for fundraising disbursements
aggregating in excess of $200 during
the election cycle, the committee must
provide on Schedule B-P the full name
and mailing address, date, amount and
purpose of the disbursement.
LINE 26. Enter the total amount of exempt
legal and accounting disbursements
on Line 26. For each person who
receives payments for exempt legal and
accounting disbursements aggregating
in excess of $200 during the election
cycle, the committee must provide
on Schedule B- P the full name and
mailing address, the date and amount
of each disbursement aggregating in
excess of $200 and the purpose of the
disbursement.
LINE 27(a). Enter the total amount
of loan repayments of loans made or
guaranteed by the candidate on Line
27(a). All loan repayments must be
itemized on Schedule B-P, regardless
of the amount. For each person who
receives a loan repayment, provide the
full name, mailing address, date and
amount, and state that the purpose of the
disbursement is a “loan repayment” (see
also instructions for Schedule C-P-1).
LINE 27(b). Enter the total amount of
loan repayments of all other loans on
Line 27(b). (See instructions for Line
27(a) for other reporting requirements.)
LINE 27(c). For both Column A and
Column B, add Lines 27(a) and 27(b) to
derive the figures for Line 27(c).
LINE 28(a). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to individuals/

persons other than political committees
on Line 20(a). For each person who
receives a refund of a contribution which
was previously itemized on Schedule
A-P, the committee must provide on
Schedule B- P the full name, mailing
address, date and amount, and state
that the purpose of the disbursement is
a “contribution refund.”
LINE 28(b). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to political party
committees on Line 28(b). All such
refunds must be itemized on Schedule
B- P, regardless of the amount. For
each contribution refund, provide the
full name, mailing address, date and
amount, and state that the purpose of the
disbursement is a “contribution refund.”
LINE 28(c). Enter the total amount of
contribution refunds to other political
committees on Line 28(c). (See
instructions for Line 28(b) for other
reporting requirements.)
LINE 28(d). For both Column A and
Column B, add Lines 28(a), 28(b) and
28(c) to derive the figures for Line 28(d).
LINE 29. Enter the total amount of other
disbursements on Line 29. For each
person who receives any disbursement(s)
not otherwise disclosed that aggregates
in excess of $200 during the election
cycle, the committee must provide the
full name and address of each such
person, together with the date, amount
and purpose of any such disbursement.
LINE 30. For both Column A and
Column B, add the totals on Lines 23,
24, 25, 26, 27(c), 28(d) and 29 to derive
the figures for Line 30.
LINE 31. Enter the total amount of items
on hand to be liquidated on Line 31. This
category is comprised of contributions
received by the committee in the form
of stocks, bonds, art objects and other
similar items to be liquidated. The
amount of such items on hand at the
close of the reporting period must be
disclosed on Line 31. For additional
information regarding disclosure of
these items, see 11 CFR 104.13(b).

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 5

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS
FOR REPORT THAT COVERS
GENERAL ELECTION DAY
For this report ONLY, principal campaign
committees must fill out Parts I, II and
V on Page 3 (Post-Election Detailed
Summary Page) in lieu of filling out
Page 2 (Detailed Summary Page). This
requirement applies to the reporting
period that includes the date of the
general election.

Page 6, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC
FORM 3P, PAGE 4
(See Section 106.2 Of FEC
Regulations)
There are five general categories of
expenditures that are to be allocated to a
campaign in a particular state. The sum
of these expenditures are to be reported
on the appropriate line for the state for
both the reporting period and aggregate
total-to-date. Each expenditure, in
the categories listed below, shall be
allocated to the state it is intended to
influence. This is not necessarily the
state in which the expenditure was
incurred or paid.
For the complete rules on Allocation
of Expenditures to States, including
the methods for allocating categories
of expenditures, please refer to Title
11 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
section 106.2.
Media Expenditures
Allocable costs include expenditures
for campaign advertising distributed
through print media (newspapers,
magazines, etc.), radio, television and
similar types of advertising broadcasts.
Media expenditures that are not allocable
to any state need not be reported on
this page. Such expenditures include
those incurred for advertisements on
national networks, national cable or
in publications distributed nationwide,
expenditures for media production costs
and commissions paid in connection
with print or broadcast media. (Costs
of shipping material to a broadcaster or
publisher are not production costs but are
considered part of the allocable media
air time or space costs.) Expenditures
for the cost of media time or space used
after the primary election has been held
in a particular state are not allocable to
that state.
Expenditures for Mass Mailings
and Other Campaign Materials
Allocable costs include expenditures
for mass mailings of more than 500
pieces to a particular state (fundraising

and political mail, newsletters, etc.), and
expenditures for the cost of shipping
campaign materials (pins, bumper
stickers, hats, T-Shirts, handbills,
posters, yard signs, etc.). Expenditures
for the purchase of the campaign
materials described above are not
allocable to any state unless they are
distributed by mass mail or print media,
or are used in the state in which they are
produced. Non-allocable expenditures
need not be reported on this page.
Overhead Expenses of State
Offices and Other Facilities
Allocable expenses include rent,
utilities, equipment, furniture, supplies,
telephone service base charges, etc.
associated with committee offices whose
activities are directed at a particular
state. In addition, expenses associated
with campaign events held in a state are
included in allocable overhead. Such
expenses include costs associated with
the rental of space in which to hold the
event, catering, furniture, sound systems,
staging, decorations, entertainment, etc.
Fifteen percent of overhead costs may
be considered exempt compliance costs.
See 11 CFR 106.2(b)(2)(iii).
Expenditures for Special
Telephone Programs
Special telephone programs include
voter registration, get-out-the-vote
efforts, fundraising and telemarketing
efforts conducted on behalf of the
candidate. Expenses associated with
a telephone program targeted at a
particular state are allocable to that state
regardless of the location from which the
calls are made. Such expenses include
the cost of designing the program, costs
of installing or renting telephone lines
and equipment, toll charges, personnel
costs, consultants’ fees, related travel
costs, and facilities rental including a
pro rata portion of national, regional, or
state office space used for such purposes.

fees, travel costs and other expenses
associated with designing and conducting
the poll. Expenditures for conducting a
nationwide public opinion poll need not
be allocated to any state.
Expenses that are not Allocated
Not included among expenses that are
allocable to each state are expenditures
for the administration, staff and overhead
of the national campaign headquarters.
Also not included are salaries of staff
working in the state or travel expenses
for campaign staff, except as noted in
the categories above, and consultants’
fees which relate to national campaign
strategy.
Fundraising Expenditures
Except for direct mail expenses,
50% of all allocable expenses may be
considered exempt fundraising. Direct
mail expenses for mailings occurring
more than 28 days before a primary
election may be considered 100%
exempt fundraising. Those occurring
within 28 days of a state’s primary may
be considered 50% fundraising. See 11
CFR 110.8(c)(2).
Allocation This Period and Total
Allocation to Date
The column “Allocation this
Period” reflects all allocable operating
expenditures made by the committee
during the reporting period, including
any allocable expenditures made by
other authorized political committees
of the candidate. The column “Total
Allocation To Date” is derived by adding
the “Total Allocation To Date” from
the previous report to “Allocation This
Period” to provide total expenditures
subject to individual state limits for the
campaign.

Public Opinion Poll
Expenditures
Allocable expenses include
expenditures incurred for consultants’
Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 7

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE A-P
Use Schedule A-P to list each
receipt required to be itemized. DO
NOT combine more than one category
of receipts on the same Schedule A-P.
Instead, use a separate Schedule A-P
for each category of receipts. The line
number of the Detailed Summary Page
to which each Schedule A-P pertains
should be identified in the upper right
hand corner of each Schedule. In
addition, the committee’s full name
must be entered in the appropriate
block. For each receipt required to be
itemized during the reporting period,
the political committee must provide the
identification of the contributor, date and
amount of the receipt, and the aggregate
election cycle-to-date total.
The term “identification” means, in
the case of an individual, his or her full
name, including: first name, middle
name or initial, if available, and last
name; mailing address; occupation; and
the name of his or her employer; and, in
the case of any other person, the person’s
full name and address.
The occupation and name of employer
are only required to be provided for
receipts from individuals. “Occupation”
means the principal job title or position
of an individual, whether or not self
employed. “Employer” means the
organization or person by whom an
individual is employed, and not the
name of his or her supervisor.
Authorized committees must indicate
the election for which the receipt was
given. In the event the receipt was given
for an election other than the current
primary cycle or general election, the
“Other” block must be checked and the
type of election or purpose specified.
The “aggregate election cycle-to-date”
total must be given for each receipt
and must equal the total amount that
the person has given to the committee
for that particular category of receipts
during the election cycle. If a receipt is
the only receipt from a person during
the election cycle, the aggregate election
cycle-to-date total must still be entered.

The “Total This Period” amount
(the last line on Schedule A-P) must
be added to all other receipts for that
category which are not itemized and
carried forward to Column A, “Total
This Period” of the corresponding line
of the Detailed Summary Page.
Contributions to a candidate or
authorized committee which are not
designated by the contributor for a
specific election must be counted toward
the contributor’s limitation for the next
election after the contribution is made.
Contributions may be made for a past
election only to the extent that the
recipient has net debts outstanding from
that particular election. See 11 CFR
110.1(b).
Prohibited and Excessive
Contributions
If a contribution is received from a
business entity or is drawn on what is
or appears to be a business account,
the political committee must determine
that the contribution is not from a
corporation, government contractor, or
other prohibited source. Otherwise, it
must be refunded within thirty days of
its receipt.
A contribution which appears to be
excessive, either on its face or when
aggregated with other contributions
from the same person, may be
returned or deposited into a campaign
depository but not used. If deposited,
the contributor may be asked if a joint
contribution was intended and, if so,
to submit a written reattribution of the
contribution signed by each contributor.
The contributor may also be asked
to redesignate the contribution for a
different election if such a contribution
would otherwise be permissible. If
no redesignation or reattribution is
received, the excessive contribution
must be refunded within sixty days of
its receipt. Both redesignations and
reattributions are to be reported as memo
entries on the report covering the period
in which the committee receives the
redesignations or reattributions. Indicate
how the contribution(s) was reported
initially, followed by the redesignated
or reattributed entry(ies). See 11 CFR

Page 8, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

104.8 for the reporting of these types
of contributions. Committees receiving
public funds should also see 11 CFR
9003.3.
Contributions In-Kind
Contributions in-kind (i.e., goods
and services provided to a political
committee) are treated as any other
contribution and must be reported and
itemized under the appropriate category
of receipts. For example, a contribution
in-kind from an individual must be
itemized on Schedule A-P and reported
under the category for “Contributions
From Individuals/Persons Other Than
Political Committees.” The value of each
contribution in-kind must be entered in
the “Amount of Each Receipt This
Period” column. The amount or value of
the contribution in-kind is the difference
between the usual and normal charge for
the goods or services at the time of the
contribution and the amount charged
the political committee. The “aggregate
election cycle-to-date” total must include
the total amount of all contributions
that the person has contributed to the
committee during the election cycle.
The item must be labeled “contribution
in-kind” and include the nature of the
contribution (e.g., consulting, polling,
etc.). Each contribution in-kind must
also be reported in the same manner as
an operating expense on Schedule B-P
for the appropriate Line (e.g., Line 23,
Operating Expenditures) and included
in the total for that line number.
Earmarked Contributions
For each earmarked contribution
received (regardless of the amount),
the political committee must report on
Schedule A-P the name and address of the
original contributor, the date of receipt
and the amount of the contribution
and, if the original contributor makes
contributions aggregating in excess of
$200 to the political committee during
the election cycle, the occupation and
name of employer. If the contribution
passes through a political committee
or Federal candidate, the conduit
(intermediary) committee must disclose
each contribution, regardless of the

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

amount, on both Schedule A-P and
Schedule B-P and include the amount
under the appropriate category of
receipts and disbursements. If the
contribution was passed on in the form
of the contributor’s check, the conduit
must disclose each contribution on a
separate Schedule A-P attached to the
conduit’s next report and the amounts
of such contributions are not required
to be included in the totals for the
appropriate categories of receipts and
disbursements. If a political committee
is not a conduit, but is the intended
recipient, the political committee must
report each conduit through which
the earmarked contribution passed,
including the name and address of the
conduit, and whether the contribution was
passed on in cash, by the contributor’s
check, or by the conduit’s check. If the
conduit exercises direction and control
over the contribution, the earmarked
contribution must also be attributed
to the contribution limitations of the
conduit.

must also be itemized as a negative entry
on Schedule A-P. If the receipt of the
check was not required to be reported,
the return of the check should not be
reported.
Best Efforts
When the treasurer of a political
committee shows that best efforts have
been used to obtain, maintain and submit
the information required, the committee
shall be considered in compliance with
the Act. For a detailed explanation
of when the Treasurer has exercised
“Best Efforts,” see section 104.7 of
the Commission’s regulations (11 CFR
104.7).

Partnership Contributions
A contribution from a partnership
must be itemized if it is in excess of or it
aggregates in excess of $200 during the
election cycle. If the portion attributed
to a single partner exceeds $200 during
the election cycle, or exceeds $200 when
aggregated with previous contributions
from that individual during the election
cycle, the required information for that
individual’s contribution must also
be itemized as a memo entry to the
partnership contribution. See 11 CFR
110.1(e) and 11 CFR 104.3(a).
Checks Returned Due to
Insufficient Funds
If a contributor’s check is returned
to the political committee due to
insufficient funds and the receipt of
the check was previously reported, the
political committee must report the
return under the appropriate category of
receipts as a negative entry and thereby
net out the amount of the check from
the total for that category. If the original
receipt of the check was itemized on
Schedule A-P, the return of the check
Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 9

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE B-P
GENERAL
U s e Schedule B-P to list each
disbursement required to be itemized.
DO NOT combine more than one
category of disbursements on the same
Schedule B-P. Instead, use a separate
Schedule B-P for each category of
disbursements. The line number of
the Detailed Summary Page to which
each Schedule B-P pertains should
be identified in the upper right hand
corner of each Schedule. In addition, the
committee’s full name must be entered
in the appropriate block.
For each disbursement required to be
itemized during the reporting period, the
political committee must provide the full
name, mailing address, date, amount,
and purpose of the disbursement.
The term “purpose” means a brief
statement or description of why the
disbursement was made. Examples
of adequate descriptions include the
following: dinner expenses, media,
salary, polling, travel, party fees, phone
banks, travel expenses, travel expense
reimbursement, and catering costs.
However, statements or descriptions
such as “advance,” “election day
expenses,” “other expenses,” “expense
reimbursement,” “miscellaneous,”
“outside services,” “get-out-the-vote,”
and “voter registration,” would not
meet the requirement for reporting the
purpose of an expenditure.

For each contribution to a Federal
candidate or authorized committee
indicate in the election check-off box
the election for which the contribution
was made. In the event the contribution
was made for an election prior to the
current election cycle, the “Other”
block must be checked and the type of
election specified (e.g., “General 2000,”
“Primary 2000”). The election check-off
boxes provided for each itemized entry
on Schedule B-P should not be used
when itemizing operating expenditures.
The “Total This Period” amount (the last
line on Schedule B-P) must be added to
all other disbursements for that category
that are not itemized and carried forward
to Column A of the corresponding line
of the Detailed Summary Page.
MISCELLANEOUS
CONTRIBUTIONS IN-KIND	
Contributions in-kind received by
the committee which are itemized on
Schedule A-P must also be itemized for
the appropriate line number on Schedule
B-P. In addition, in the “Purpose of
Disbursement” box include the notation
“Contribution In-Kind,” and the nature
(e.g., computers, polling, etc.).
VOID CHECKS
Disbursements that are reported and
later voided should be adjusted by
a negative entry to the appropriate
category of disbursement. If the original
check was itemized on Schedule B-P, the
negative entry reversing the disclosure
should also be itemized.

For disbursements that are contributions
to Federal candidates or authorized
committees, the committee must include
under “Purpose of Disbursement” the
name of the candidate and office sought
(including State and congressional
district, where applicable) and the
aggregate election cycle-to-date
total of contributions made to that
candidate or committee in the purpose
of disbursement box.
Page 10, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE C-P
All loans (regardless of amount) must
be disclosed on the first report filed with
the Commission after the date the loan
is made. When filling out Schedule C-P,
the committee must enter its full name
in the box at the top of the page, and use
a separate Schedule C-P for loans owed
TO the committee and loans owed BY
the committee.
LOANS OWED BY THE
COMMITTEE
Itemize each loan received by
the committee on Schedule A-P for
the appropriate line of the Detailed
Summary page an also disclose it on
Schedule C-P and Schedule C-P-1 (if
applicable). For each loan owed BY
the reporting committee, the committee
must report certain basic information on
Schedule C-P in the appropriate boxes:
(1) full name and mailing address of
the creditor; (2) the election to which
the loan applies (i.e., primary, general
or other); (3) the original amount of
the loan; (4) the cumulative payment to
date on the loan; and (5) the outstanding
balance at the close of the reporting
period (i.e., the remaining unpaid
portion of the loan).
If an intermediary is reported as the
source of the loan, the original source
of the loan must be disclosed in the first
box for endorsers and guarantors with a
notation that the person identified is the
original source.
Enter certain additional information
on Schedule C-P in the box entitled
TERMS: (1) the date the obligation was
incurred; (2) the date the loan is due or
the amortization schedule (if there is no
due date or amortization schedule, enter
“None” on the appropriate line); (3) the
actual rate of interest charged on each
loan (if the loan does not bear an interest
rate, enter “None” on the appropriate
line); and (4) check the box if the loan
has been secured.
In instances where the loan has
endorsers or guarantors, the following

information must be supplied: (1)
the identification of each endorser or
guarantor, and (2) the amount of the
endorsement or guarantee outstanding
at the close of the reporting period. The
term “identification” means (a) in the
case of an individual, his or her full
name, mailing address, occupation, and
name of employer; and (b) in the case of
any other person, the person’s full name
and address.
In instances where the loan is derived
from either a bank loan to the candidate
or from an advance on the candidate’s
brokerage account, credit card, home
equity line of credit or other line of
credit, report the candidate as the source
of the loan on Schedule C-P. In addition
to reporting the terms of the loans in the
appropriate boxes, disclose the type/
source of loan the candidate received
(i.e., bank loan, brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit,
other line of credit, or personal funds
of the candidate) in the first box for
endorsers and guarantors with a notation
for loan type or in the box for “Loan
Source” after the candidate’s name.
Continue to report loans owed BY
the committee on Schedule C-P of
each subsequent report until repaid.
When a payment is made to reduce or
extinguish the amount of a loan owed
BY the committee, the payment must
be itemized on Schedule B-P, reported
on the appropriate line of the Detailed
Summary Page, and included in the
“Cumulative Payment to Date” column
on Schedule C-P. If any extension for
repayment is granted, this should be
reported on the first report after the
extension is made, along with the new
terms or conditions of the extension.
If a loan is settled for less than
the reported amount, the reporting
committee must include a statement
as to the circumstances and conditions
under which the debt or obligation was
extinguished and the amount paid. A
loan owed BY a political committee
which is forgiven or settled for less
than the amount owed is a contribution.
Enter the total amount of loans owed
BY the committee at the close of the
reporting period on the line for “Total

This Period” on the bottom of the last
page and transferred to Line 3 of the
last page of Schedule D-P. If no debts or
obligations are reported on Schedule DP, carry the outstanding balance reported
for Schedule C-P forward to Line 12 of
the Summary Page.
LOANS OWED TO THE
COMMITTEE
A loan made by the committee must
be itemized on Schedule B-P and must
also be disclosed on Schedule C-P. For
each loan owed TO the committee, the
committee must report certain basic
information on Schedule C-P in the
appropriate boxes: (1) the full name and
mailing address of each debtor; (2) if the
loan was made to a Federal candidate
or authorized committee, the election
to which the loan applies (i.e., primary,
general or other); (3) the original
amount of the loan; (4) the cumulative
payment to date on the loan; and (5)
the outstanding balance at the close of
the reporting period (i.e., the remaining
unpaid portion of the loan).
Certain additional information must
be entered on Schedule C-P in the
box entitled TERMS: (1) the date the
obligation was incurred; (2) the date
the loan is due or the amortization
schedule (if there is no due date or
amortization schedule, enter “None”
on the appropriate line); (3) the actual
rate of interest charged on the loan (if
the loan does not bear an interest rate,
enter “None” on the appropriate line);
(4) check the box if the loan has been
secured. Continue to report loans owed
TO the committee on each subsequent
report until repaid. When a payment
is received to reduce or extinguish
a loan owed TO the committee, the
payment must be itemized on Schedule
A-P, reported on the appropriate line
of the Detailed Summary Page, and
included in the “Cumulative Payment
to Date” column on Schedule C-P. If
any extension for repayment is granted
or made, this should be reported on the
first report after the extension is made,
along with the new terms or conditions
of the extension.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 11

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Enter the total amount of loans owed
TO the committee at the close of the
reporting period on the line for “Total
This Period” on the bottom of the last
page and transferred to Line 3 of the
last page of Schedule D-P. If no debts or
obligations are reported on Schedule DP, carry the outstanding balance reported
on Schedule C-P forward to Line 11 of
the Summary Page.
MISCELLANEOUS
LOANS BY FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS
A loan of money by a State bank,
a federally chartered depository
institution (including a national bank)
or a depository institution whose
deposits and accounts are insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation, or the
National Credit Union Administration
is not a contribution or an expenditure
by the lending institution if the loan is
made in accordance with applicable
banking laws and regulations and is
made in the ordinary course of business.
(See 11 CFR 100.82 and 100.142). A
Schedule C-P-1 must be filed for each
loan and line of credit obtained from a
lending institution. (See Schedule C-P-1
instructions.)
CANDIDATE LOANS
When a candidate obtains a loan that
is then loaned or given to the campaign
to influence the candidate’s election
to federal office, the information the
principal campaign committee must
disclose depends on the source of the
money being loaned. If the candidate
obtains a bank loan or a loan of money
derived from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit or
other line of credit, only the candidate
needs to be listed as the source of the
loan on Schedule C-P. The type of
loan the candidate receives (i.e., bank
loan, brokerage account, credit card,
home equity line of credit, other line of
credit, personal funds of the candidate)
must also be disclosed in either the first

box for endorsers or guarantors with a
notation for loan type or in the box for
“Loan Source” after the candidate’s
name. The term of the loan between
the candidate and the committee (not
the terms between the candidate the
lending institution) must be reported
in the appropriate boxes along with
information regarding the endorsers
and guarantors. If the candidate obtains
a loan from another person, list the
other person as the original source
of the loan and the candidate as the
intermediary. Loans obtained by an
individual prior to becoming a candidate
that are subsequently used to influence
the candidate’s election to Federal office
must be reported as an outstanding loan
owed to the candidate by the principal
campaign committee, if the loan is
outstanding at the time an individual
becomes a candidate.
LOANS BY POLITICAL
COMMITTEES
If a political committee makes a
loan TO any person, the loan shall be
subject to the contribution limitations.
Repayments to the political committee
of the principal amount of the loan is not
a contribution by the debtor to the lender
committee. (See 11 CFR 100.52(b)(5)).
ENDORSERS AND
GUARANTORS
A loan is a contribution by each
endorser or guarantor. Each endorser
or guarantor shall be deemed to have
contributed that portion of the total
amount of the loan for which he or
she agreed to be liable in a written
agreement. (See 11 CFR 100. 52(b)(5)).
LOAN REPAYMENTS
Each committee must disclose all
loan repayments received or made by the
committee. When a loan repayment is
received by a committee, the repayment
must be itemized on Schedule A-P and
included in the “Cumulative Payment
to Date” column on Schedule C-P.
When a loan repayment is made by
a committee, the repayment must be
itemized on Schedule B-P and included

Page 12, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

in the “Cumulative Payment to Date”
column on Schedule C-P. Disclose the
total amount of loan repayments of loans
made or guaranteed by the candidate
and the total amount of loan repayments
of all other loans on the appropriate
lines of the Detailed Summary Page. 	
For candidate loans, the candidate’s
authorized committee may repay the
loan directly to the candidate or to
the original lender. The amount of
repayment must not exceed the amount
of the principal used for the purpose
of influencing the candidate’s election
for Federal office and interest that
has accrued on that principal. When
repayments are made to the candidate
for candidate loans, the committee is
not required to report the repayments
made by the candidate to the lending
institution.
Background:
1. FEC Regulations on Loans
from Lending Institutions
Schedule C-P-1 seeks information
on loans—including lines of credit—
from lending institutions such as state
or federally chartered banks, federally
insured savings and loan associations
or federally insured credit unions. The
purpose of Schedule C-P-1 is to verify
that a loan or line of credit does not
result in a prohibited contribution from
the lending institution, a violation of the
federal campaign finance law.
Under FEC regulations at 11 CFR
100.82 and 100.142, a loan “made in
accordance with applicable banking
laws” and “in the ordinary course of
business” is not considered a contribution
or an expenditure if certain conditions
are met. One of these conditions is that
the loan “is made on a basis which
assures repayment.” Schedule C-P-1
documents whether or not the loan
complies with these requirements.
2. FEC Regulations on Loans
from the Candidate to the
Committee
Schedule C-P-1 also seeks information
when a candidate obtains a bank loan or

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

a loan derived from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit, or other
line of credit available to the candidate,
including an overdraft made on a
personal checking or savings account of
the candidate and that loan is used for the
purpose of influencing the candidate’s
election for Federal office. The loan
must be made in accordance with
applicable law and under commercially
reasonable terms, and the person making
the loan to the candidate must make
loans in the normal course of business.
Who Must File Schedule C-P-1
A political committee authorized by
a candidate for President that obtains a
loan or line of credit from a bank or other
lending institution must file Schedule
C-P-1. An authorized committee must
also file Schedule C-P-1 when the
candidate obtains a bank loan or loan of
money derived from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit, or other
line of credit and the borrowed funds are
used for the purpose of influencing the
candidate’s election for Federal office.
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1). (See Schedule C-P
instructions on Candidate Loans.)
When to File Schedule C-P-1
A Schedule C-P-1 must be filed
for each loan and each line of credit
obtained from a lending institution.
Or from a candidate, when the loan is
derived from a bank loan or from an
advance on the candidate’s brokerage
account, credit card, home equity line
of credit or other line of credit. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1).
Loans. A committee must file a Schedule
C-P-1 with its next report when it
first obtains a loan and in succeeding
reporting periods each time the terms
of the loan are restructured. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1) and (3). (A restructured loan
is considered a new loan.)
Lines of Credit. A committee must file
a Schedule C-P-1 with its next report
when a line of credit is established and
in succeeding reporting periods each

time any draws are made on the line of
credit and each time the line of credit
is restructured to change the repayment
terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1) and (3).
Reporting Loans and Lines of
Credit on Schedules A-P and C-P
Schedule A-P. When a candidate or
committee obtains a loan that is used
for the purpose of influencing the
candidate’s election for Federal office,
the committee must itemize the receipt
on a Schedule A-P for the appropriate
line number. However, a line of credit is
itemized on Schedule A-P only when the
candidate or committee obtains funds by
making a draw on the credit.
Schedule C-P. All loans from lending
institutions must be continuously
disclosed on Schedule C-P, starting with
the first report due after the committee
obtains the loan and continuing with
each report thereafter until the loan is
repaid.
Line-by-Line Instructions
Schedule C-P Cross-Reference. Enter
the Schedule C-P page number where
information on the loan or line of credit
appears on the “Supplementary” line.
Name of Committee Obtaining Loan.
Enter the full name of the reporting
committee.
Identification Number. Enter the
reporting committee’s FEC identification
number. If the committee is newly
registered and has not yet obtained a
number, enter “not yet assigned.”

credit made to the committee directly
from a lending institution, enter the
amount of the loan or line of credit.
If reporting a restructured loan or line
of credit, enter the amount under the
new terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i) and
(3). If a candidate obtains a loan from
a bank or derived from an advance on
a brokerage account, credit card, home
equity line of credit or other line of credit
and contributes or loans some or all of
that amount to the committee for the
purpose of influencing the candidate’s
election for Federal office report here
only the amount used for the purpose of
influencing the candidate’s election for
Federal office. For loans derived from a
draw on the candidate’s line of credit the
committee need only report the amount
of the draw in this section, and not the
entire amount of the line of credit.
Interest Rate. Enter the annual
percentage rate (APR) of interest on the
loan or each draw on the line of credit.
If reporting a restructured loan or line of
credit, enter the interest rate under the
new terms. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii) and
(3). For loans from the candidate that are
obtained from a bank or derived from an
advance on the candidate’s brokerage
account, credit card, home equity line
of credit or other line of credit, provide
the interest rate for the loan from the
lending institution to the candidate, not
the interest rate for the loan from the
candidate to the committee.

Name/Address of Lender. Enter the
full name, address and zip code of
the lending institution. For loans from
the candidate that are obtained from
a bank or derived from an advance
on the candidate’s brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit
or other line of credit, the lending
institution’s full name and address
should be provided, rather than that of
the candidate.

Date Incurred or Established. Enter
the date the candidate or committee
incurred the debt by signing the loan
agreement (the original agreement or a
restructured agreement, as appropriate).
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(i) and (3). For loans
from the candidate that are obtained
from a bank or derived from an advance
on the candidate’s brokerage account,
credit card, home equity line of credit
or other line of credit, provide the date
incurred or established for the loan from
the lending institution to the candidate,
not the date incurred or established
for the loan from the candidate to the
committee.

Loan Amount. For loans or lines of

Due Date. Enter the date on which full

Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 13

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

repayment of the loan or line of credit is
due (under the original agreement or a
restructured agreement, as appropriate).
11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(ii) and (3). The due
date is not required for a loan of money
from an advance on the candidate’s
brokerage account, credit card, home
equity line of credit, or other line
of credit and such loans used in the
candidate’s campaign.
A. Restructured Loans. Check yes
if the loan or line of credit has been
restructured to change the terms; enter
the date on which the original loan or
line of credit was incurred. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(3).
B. Draws on Line of Credit. If
reporting a draw on a line of credit,
enter the amount of the draw and the
outstanding balance owed on the line
of credit (cumulative draws less any
repayments made). 11 CFR 104.3(d)
(1)(ii). This information is not required
for loans derived from the candidate’s
home equity line of credit or other line
of credit and used for the purpose of
influencing the candidate’s election for
Federal office.
C. Secondary Sources of Repayment.
Check yes if the loan or line of credit was
endorsed or guaranteed by secondary
parties. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii).
Information on endorsers and guarantors
must be disclosed on Schedule C-P.
(Note that guarantees and endorsements
of loans are considered contributions;
see Schedule C-P instructions.)
D. Traditional Collateral. Check yes
if the loan or line of credit was obtained
using traditional sources of collateral,
and list the specific assets that were
pledged. Enter the total fair market
value of the collateral as of the date of
the loan agreement. Indicate whether the
lender has a perfected security interest in
the collateral. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii).
(Note that a perfected security interest
is a requirement under FEC regulations.
11 CFR 100.82(e)(1)(i)and 100.142(e)
(2)(iii).)
E. Future Receipts as Collateral.
Check yes if the loan or line of credit
was obtained using future receipts as
collateral; list the types of receipts that

were pledged; and enter their estimated
amount. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(iii). Enter
the date the separate account was
established for the deposit of pledged
receipts. (A depository account is
required under 11 CFR 100.82(e)(1)
(i)and 100.142(e)(2)(iii).) Provide the
full name and address of the depository
institution where the account was
established. Enter the date on which the
candidate or committee authorized the
U.S. Treasury to make direct deposits
of public financing payments to the
account.
F. Other Means of Obtaining Loan.
Complete this section if “no” was
checked in sections C, D, and E or if
the amount cosigned and/or pledged for
the loan or line of credit is less than the
loan amount. If so, state the basis upon
which the loan was made and the basis
on which it assures repayment. 11 CFR
104.3(d)(1)(iv).
G. Treasurer’s Signature and Date.
The committee treasurer (or properly
designated assistant treasurer) must
sign and date the form; the signer’s
name should be printed or typed beside
the signature. The treasurer’s signature
and date are not required for bank
loans obtained by the candidate or a
loan of money from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit, or other
line of credit.
H. Copy of Loan Agreement. Attach
a copy of the signed agreement. 11
CFR 104.3(d)(2). A copy of the loan
agreement is not required for bank
loans obtained by the candidate or a
loan of money from an advance on the
candidate’s brokerage account, credit
card, home equity line of credit, or other
line of credit.
I. Lender Certification. An authorized
representative of the lending institution
must sign and date the form to certify
that the lender has complied with items I
through III. 11 CFR 104.3(d)(1)(v). The
representative’s name should be printed
or typed beside his or her signature.
The representative’s title must also be
entered. Lender certification is no longer
required for bank loans obtained by the
candidate or a loan of money from an

Page 14, Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011)

advance on the candidate’s brokerage
account, credit card, home equity line
of credit, or other line of credit.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 3P AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
SCHEDULE D-P
When filling out Schedule D-P, the
committee must enter its full name in
the box at the top of the page. 	 D O
NOT combine debts and obligations
owed to the committee with those owed
by the committee on the same Schedule
D-P. Instead, use a separate Schedule
D-P.
DEBTS AND OBLIGATIONS
OWED BY THE COMMITTEE
(Other Than Loans)
For debts and obligations owed BY
the reporting committee at the close
of the reporting period and which are
required to be disclosed, the committee
must report the full name and mailing
address of each creditor, the amount of
the debt outstanding at the beginning
of the period, the amount of the debt
or obligations incurred this period
(including any finance charges), the
pay- ment(s) this period to retire the
debt or obligation, the outstanding
balance at the close of the reporting
period, and the nature or purpose of the
debt or obligation. The terms “nature”
and “purpose” mean a brief statement
or description of why the debt or
obligation was incurred (e.g., media,
salary, polling, supplies, mailing).
A written contract (including a media
contract), promise, or agreement to make
an expenditure that has not been paid
for by the committee is an expenditure
as of the date the contract, promise or
obligation is made, and is subject to
the reporting requirements. Accounts
payable and written contracts, promises,
or agreements to make expenditures in
amounts of $500 or less need not be
disclosed until outstanding for sixty
days or more. Note that special reporting
rules apply when an individual makes
an advance for a good or service, but
expects to be reimbursed. See the
instructions for reporting “reimbursed
advances by staff” in the Campaign
Guide for Congressional Candidates
(also applicable to Presidential
candidate), Chapter 13.

Debts and obligations owed BY
the committee must continue to be
reported on each subsequent report
until extinguished or settled in a
manner permitted by Federal Election
Commission regulations (see 11 CFR
Part 116 for settlement of debts). When a
payment is made to reduce or extinguish
an obligation owed BY the committee,
the payment must be itemized on
Schedule B-P, reported on the appropriate
line of the Detailed Summary Page, and
included in the “Payment This Period”
column on Schedule D-P. If a debt or
obligation is settled for less than the
reported amount or value, the reporting
committee must include a statement
as to the circumstances and conditions
under which the debt or obligation was
extinguished and the amount paid. A debt
owed BY a political committee which
is forgiven or settled for less than the
amount owed is a contribution unless the
debt is forgiven or settled in accordance
with 11 CFR Part 116. The extension of
credit by any person for a length of time
beyond normal business or trade practice
is a contribution, unless the creditor has
made a commercially reasonable attempt
to collect the debt. The total amount of
debts and obligations owed BY the
committee at the close of the reporting
period must be entered at the bottom of
the last page under “Total this Period”
and added to the total loans owed BY the
committee from Schedule C-P. The total
amount of debts and obligations owed
BY the committee (including loans)
must be carried forward to Line 12 of
the Summary Page.

and the nature or purpose of the debt
or obligation. The terms “nature” and
“purpose” mean a brief statement or
description of why the debt or obligation
was incurred (e.g., media, salary, polling,
supplies, mailing).
Debts and obligations owed TO
the committee must continue to be
reported on each subsequent report
until extinguished or settled in a manner
permitted by the Federal Election
Commission regulations (see 11 CFR
Part 116 for settlement of debts).
When a payment is received to reduce
or extinguish a debt or obligation
owed TO the committee, the payment
must be itemized on Schedule A-P,
reported on the appropriate line of the
Detailed Summary Page, and included
in the “Payment this Period” column
on Schedule D-P. Written contracts or
agreements (such as signed pledge cards)
or oral promises to make contributions
are not required to be reported. The total
amount of debts and obligations owed
TO the committee at the close of the
reporting period must be entered at the
bottom of the last page under “Total This
Period” and added to the loans owed TO
the committee from Schedule C-P. The
total amount of debts and obligation
owed TO the committee (including
loans) must be carried forward to Line
11 of the Summary Page for FEC Form
3P, Page 1.

DEBTS AND OBLIGATIONS
OWED TO THE COMMITTEE
(Other Than Loans)
For each debt and obligation owed
TO the committee at the close of the
reporting period, the committee must
report: the full name and mailing
address of each creditor, the amount of
the debt outstanding at the beginning
of the period, the amount of the debt
or obligation incurred this period, the
payment(s) this period to retire the debt
or obligation, the outstanding balance
at the close of the reporting period,
Federal Election Commission (Revised 03/2011), Page 15

