INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 6

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

48-Hour Notice of Contributions/Loans Received (FEC FORM 6)
Who Must File FEC Form 6
Principal campaign committees
must file 48-hour notices on contributions of $1,000 or more received
after the 20th day, but more than 48
hours, before 12:01 a.m. of the day of
any election in which the candidate
participates.
Committees may disclose these
contributions on FEC Form 6 or in
a letter containing the same information. Note: Principal campaign
committees (except for those of Senate candidates) must file reports in
an electronic format under 11 CFR
104.18 if they have either received
contributions or made expenditures
in excess of $50,000, or if they have
reason to expect that they will exceed
either of those thresholds during the
calendar year. See the instructions
for Form 3, Report of Receipts and
Disbursements, for more information
about when committees have reason to
expect they will exceed the electronic
filing thresholds. If the committee
has reached this level of activity,
DO NOT FILE THIS FORM ON
PAPER. Instead, you must file this
form in an electronic format. Contact
the FEC for more information on filing electronically.
The 48-hour notice requirement
applies to all types of elections—primary, convention, general, runoff and
special—and even when a candidate is
unopposed in an election.
This requirement applies to all
contributions of $1,000 or more,
including:
•	Monetary and in-kind contributions;
•	Guarantees and endorsements
of bank loans;
•	Loans (other than bank loans);
•	Advances;
•	Contributions, personal loans,
endorsements of bank loans
and advances made by the candidate; and
•	Candidate draws on personal
credit cards.
Page 1	

The 48 Hour Notice requirement
does not apply to contributions that
have been previously disclosed on
reports filed by the committee.
When to File
FEC Form 6 must be received by
the federal and state (where required)
filing offices within 48 hours after a
campaign’s receipt of any contribution of $1,000 or more received after
the 20th day, but more than 48 hours
before, the date of any election in
which the candidate participates. A
postmark date is not significant for
purposes of filing on time. If filed
electronically, the form must be received and validated by the Commission‘s computer system on or before
11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight
Savings Time on the prescribed filing date. Committees that are not
required to file electronically may file
this form either electronically or via
facsimile machine to the numbers
listed below.
Where to File
Senate candidate committees file
with the Secretary of the Senate.
Secretary of the Senate
Office of Public Records
P.O. Box 77578
Washington, DC 20013-7578
Fax number for
Secretary of the Senate:
(202) 224–1851.
All other candidate committees file
with the FEC.
Federal Election Commission
999 E Street, NW
Washington, DC 20463
Fax number for FEC:
(202) 219–0174

copy of this form in their territory.
Presidential candidate committees
must simultaneously file copies of this
form with the appropriate state officer
in Guam, Mariana Islands or Puerto
Rico if the committee has made expenditures in those territories. As of
August 2011, those states/territories
had not qualified for the Commission’s
state filing waiver program.
What to Report
Fill in the information requested in
the spaces provided.
Lines 1-4. Include the name and
address of the committee, name of
the candidate, the office sought by the
candidate and your committee’s FEC
identification number. On line 5, indicate whether this is a new or amended
filing. If it is an amendment, provide
the filing date of the notice it amends.
For each contribution of $1,000 or
more from an individual, provide the
following information:
•	Full name (including first name,
middle name or initial, if available, and last name);
•	Mailing address;
•	Occupation and name of employer;
•	Date of receipt; and
•	Amount of contribution.
In the case of contributions from
any other person (including contributions from political committees),
provide the contributor’s full name
and address, the date of receipt and
the amount of the contribution.
The committee must itemize the
contributions and loans a second
time in the first report filed after the
election.

Principal candidate committees of
House candidates in Guam, Mariana
Islands or Puerto Rico must file a
Federal Election Commission (Revised 2/2012)

