INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 2

FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Instructions for Statement of Candidacy (FEC FORM 2)

Who Must File FEC Form 2
Each individual who is a candidate
for federal office must file FEC FORM
2 or, if not filing electronically, a letter
containing the same information within
15 days of becoming a candidate. An
individual becomes a candidate for federal office whenever any of the following
events occur:
•The individual has received contributions aggregating in excess of $5,000
or made expenditures aggregating in
excess of $5,000;
•The individual has given his or her
consent to another person to receive
contributions or make expenditures
on behalf of that individual and such
person has received contributions aggregating in excess of $5,000 or made
expenditures aggregating in excess of
$5,000;
•The aggregate of contributions received
in 1 and 2 above combined exceeds
$5,000 or the aggregate of expenditures made in 1 and 2 above combined
exceeds $5,000.
Funds received and payments made
for the purpose of determining whether
an individual should become a candidate
are not considered “contributions” or
“expenditures” which may trigger candidacy. Only funds permissible under
the Act may be used for such activities.
See 11 CFR 100.72(b) and 100.131 for
further information.
Note: Political committees (except
for principal campaign committees of
Senate candidates) must file reports in an
electronic format under 11 CFR 104.18
if they have either received contributions or made expenditures in excess
of $50,000 during a calendar year, or if
they have reason to expect that they will
exceed either of those thresholds during
the calendar year. If the committee has
reached this level of activity, you must
file this form in an electronic format.
An authorized committee of a candidate is considered to have reason to
expect it will exceed the electronic fil9-00068

ing threshold for the next two calendar
years after the calendar year in which
it exceeds $50,000 in contributions or
expenditures.
A new authorized committee with no
previous contributions or expenditures
is considered to have reason to expect it
will exceed the electronic filing threshold if it exceeds $12,500 in contributions
or expenditures during the first calendar
quarter of the calendar year, or $25,000
in contributions or expenditures in the
first half of the calendar year.
Contact the FEC for more information on filing electronically.
When to File
FEC FORM 2 must be filed within 15
days after an individual becomes a candidate (i.e., exceeds the $5,000 threshold
as stated in 1, 2, and 3, above).
Where to File
(See also instructions for Line 7,
below.)
•Senate Candidates. Candidates
seeking nomination or election to
the United States Senate file with
the Secretary of the Senate, Office of
Public Records, 232 Hart Senate Office
Building Washington, DC 20510-7116.
Mail addressed to the Secretary of the
Senate should read: “Office of Public
Records, P.O. Box 77578, Washington,
DC 20013-7578.”
•House Candidates. Candidates seeking nomination or election to the U.S.
House file with the Federal Election
Commission, 999 E Street, NW, Washington, DC. 20463.
•Presidential/Vice-Presidential Candidates. Candidates seeking nomination
or election to the offices of U.S. President or U.S. Vice President file with the
Federal Election Commission, 999 E
Street, NW, Washington, DC 20463.
State Filing. House and Senate candidates must file a copy of this form with
the state in which the office is sought,
with the exception of candidates in states

that have qualified for the Commission’s
state filing waiver program. Presidential
candidates must file a copy of this form
in states where they have made expenditures, with the exception of those states
that have qualified for the Commission’s
state filing waiver program. A list of
qualified states is available from the
Federal Election Commission.
Candidate Duties and
Responsibilities
The candidate is personally responsible for the timely and complete filing
of this Statement and for the accuracy of
any information contained in it.
Any candidate who receives a contribution, obtains a loan or makes a disbursement in connection with his or her
campaign is considered to have received
the contribution, obtained the loan or
made the disbursement as an agent of his
or her authorized committee(s).
When an individual becomes a
candidate, all funds received, loans
obtained or disbursements made prior
to becoming a candidate in connection
with his or her campaign are considered
to have been received, obtained, or made
as an agent of his or her authorized
committee(s) and must be reported in
the first report filed by the candidate’s
principal campaign committee.
Line-by-Line Instructions
LINE 1. Print or type complete name
and mailing address of the candidate.
LINE 2. Candidates who have never run
before, who are running in a different district, or who are seeking a different federal office should leave this blank. When
their Statement has been received, they
will be assigned an identification number.
Candidates who are seeking reelection,
and candidates who have terminated a
previous candidacy but are now running
again for the same seat, should use their
original identification number.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 2

LINE 3. Check “New” if you are filing
Form 2 for the first time. Otherwise,
check “Amended.”
LINES 4 – 6. Provide the requested
information.
LINE 7. Each candidate for federal office (other than a nominee for the office
of Vice President) must designate in
writing a political committee to serve as
his or her principal campaign committee. The name of the principal campaign
committee must include the name of
the candidate. The principal campaign
committee must file a Statement of
Organization (FEC FORM 1) within
10 days of designation by the candidate
and must file reports of receipts and
disbursements. See instructions for FEC
Form 1 for further details. On Line 7,
the candidate must indicate the year of
the election and the full name and street
address of the candidate’s principal
campaign committee. If the candidate
is running in a Special Election, the candidate must note that the designation is
for a Special Election under the “Year of
Election.” If the candidate also runs in
the “regular” November general election
or in the primary for the November general election, the candidate must file an
additional FEC Form 2 and indicate the
year of the election on the appropriate
line. Any such candidate may designate
the same principal campaign committee for the special election and regular
primary and general elections.

be filed with the candidate’s principal
campaign committee. See instructions
for FEC Form 1 for further details. The
principal campaign committee must file
a copy of the Statement of Organization
for the authorized committee with the
appropriate office listed above, under
“Where to File.”
The candidate must sign and date the
Statement of Candidacy.

LINE 8. A candidate may designate additional political committees to accept
contributions or make expenditures on
behalf of the candidate, this includes
joint fundraising representatives. The
name of any committee authorized by a
candidate must include the name of the
candidate. For Line 8, the candidate
must fill in the name and street address
of any authorized committee(s). If necessary, additional sheets or FEC Form
2’s may be attached. The FEC Form 2
for the authorized committee must be
filed with the principal campaign committee. All authorized committees must
file a Statement of Organization (FEC
FORM 1) within 10 days of designation
by the candidate. This Statement must
Page 2

Federal Election Commission (Revised 02/09)

9-00068

