INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 05 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING FEC FORM 5
(Report of Independent Expenditures Made and Contributions Received
to be Used by Persons Other Than Political Committees)
Who Must File
Every person, group of persons or
organization, other than a political
committee, that makes or contracts to
make independent expenditures aggregating in excess of $250 with respect to
a given election in a calendar year must
report these expenditures by submitting FEC Form 5 or a signed statement
satisfying the requirements of 11 CFR
109.10. (Political committees that make
independent expenditures shall report
them on FEC Form 3X, Schedule E.)
Note: Individuals and other persons
must file this form in an electronic
format under 11 CFR 104.18 if they
make independent expenditures in
excess of $50,000 in a calendar year,
or if they have reason to expect that
they will exceed this threshold during
the calendar year. If you have reached
this level of activity, you must file this
form in an electronic format. Contact
the FEC for more information on filing
electronically.
Definitions
Contribution means any gift, subscription, loan, advance or deposit of
money or anything of value made by
any person for the purpose of influencing any election for federal office.
Independent expenditure means an
expenditure by a person for a communication expressly advocating the election
or defeat of a clearly identified candidate that is not made with the cooperation or prior consent of, in consultation
with, or at the request or suggestion of,
a candidate or an agent or authorized
committee of a candidate or a political
party committee or its agents. 11 CFR
100.16. For a definition of “expressly
advocating,” see 11 CFR 100.22.
Publicly Distributed or Publicly Disseminated. “Publicly distributed” means
aired, broadcast, cablecast or otherwise
Federal Election Commission (Revised 09/2013)

disseminated through the facilities of
a television or radio station or cable
television or satellite system. 11 CFR
100.29(b)(3). “Publicly disseminated”
refers to communications made public
via other media (e.g., newspapers, magazines, etc.) 11 CFR 104.4(f). See also,
“Interpretive Rule on When Certain
Independent Expenditures are ‘Publicly
Disseminated’ for Reporting Purposes,”
76 FR 61254 (2011).
Name of Employer means the organization or person by whom an individual
is employed, rather than the name of
his or her supervisor. Individuals who
are self employed should indicate “selfemployed.”
Occupation means the principal job
title or position of an individual.
Purpose means a brief statement or
description of why the disbursement
was made.

When to File
Each calendar year is divided into
quarterly reporting periods. Reports for
independent expenditures are due on
April 15, July 15, October 15 and January 31 of the following year and must
include all reportable contributions
received and independent expenditures
made from the closing date of the last
report filed through the end of the calendar quarter for which the report is
submitted. 11 CFR 109.10(b).
File reports of independent expenditures made during the calendar
quarter reporting period in which these
expenditures aggregate in excess of $250
with respect to a given election in the
calendar year, and for any subsequent
quarter that year in which additional
independent expenditures for that election of any amount are made.
In addition to this quarterly reporting of independent expenditures, more
timely reports are required for indepen-

dent expenditures with respect to the
same election that either: 1) aggregate
$10,000 or more and are made more
than 20 days before the election (“48hour reports”); or 2) aggregate $1,000
or more and are made less than twenty
days before the election (“24-hour
reports”). See below.
48-Hour Reports
In addition to quarterly reports, any
person that makes or contracts to make
independent expenditures aggregating
$10,000 or more with respect to a given
election during the calendar year up to
and including the 20th day before an
election must report these expenditures
within 48 hours. The report must be
received no later than 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight Time on the
second day following the date on which
an independent expenditure is publicly distributed or disseminated. The
person must continue to file additional
48-hour reports every time subsequent
independent expenditures reach the
$10,000 threshold with respect to the
same election to which the first report
related. The report must include all of
the information required on Form 5
and by 11 CFR 109.10(e), including a
statement indicating whether the independent expenditure was in support of,
or in opposition to, a particular candidate and a verified certification under
penalty of perjury as to whether such
expenditure was made in cooperation,
consultation or concert with, or at the
request or suggestion of any candidate
or authorized committee or agent or
a political party committee or agents
thereof. All 48-hour reports shall be
filed with the Federal Election Commission. Filers other than electronic filers
may submit 48-hour reports by fax (to
202-219-0174) or electronic mail (to
2022190174@fec.gov). All filers may
submit reports online at www.fec.gov.
Page 1

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 05 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

24-Hour Reports
In addition to the quarterly reports
and 48-hour reports, persons who make
independent expenditures aggregating
$1,000 or more with respect to a given
election after the twentieth day but more
than 24 hours before 12:01a.m. of the
day of the election must file 24-hour
reports. The report must be received by
11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard/Daylight
Time on the day following the date on
which an independent expenditure is
publicly distributed or disseminated.
These reports must contain all of the
information required on Form 5 and by
11 CFR 109.10(e), including a statement
indicating whether the independent
expenditure was in support of, or in
opposition to, a particular candidate
and a verified certification under penalty of perjury as to whether such
independent expenditure was made in
cooperation, consultation or concert
with, or at the request or suggestion of
any candidate or authorized committee
or agent or a political party committee
or its agents. All 24-hour reports shall
be filed with the Federal Election Commission. Filers other than electronic
filers may submit 24-hour reports by
fax (to 202-219-0174) or electronic mail
(to 2022190174@fec.gov). All filers may
submit reports online at www.fec.gov.
Special Election Reporting
The Commission establishes separate
reporting schedules for special elections.
Contact the Commission for special
election reporting dates.

Where To File
File all reports using this Form with
the Federal Election Commission, 999
E Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20463.
Filers other than electronic filers may
submit reports by fax (to 202-219-0174)
or electronic mail (to 2022190174@
fec.gov). All filers may submit reports
online at www.fec.gov.
For reports of independent expenditures supporting or opposing a candidate in Guam, Northern Mariana
Page 2	

Islands or Puerto Rico for the House,
submit a copy of this form to the territory in which the candidate seeks
election. For reports of independent
expenditures made in Guam, Northern
Mariana Islands or Puerto Rico supporting or opposing a candidate for
President or Vice President, submit a
copy of this form to the territory in
which the expenditure is made. As of
August 2013, these territories had not
qualified for the Commission’s state
filing waiver program.
Record retention. Persons filing
independent expenditure reports must
retain copies of their reports for a
period of not less than 3 years from
the date of filing.

Line By Line Instructions
LINE 1. Name of Individual, Organization or Corporation. Provide the name
and mailing address of the filer.
LINE 2. Individual filers—provide
the name of your employer and your
occupation.
LINE 3. FEC Identification Number.
First time filers—leave this line blank.
Previous filers with an identification
number—enter that number.
LINE 4. Type of Report. (a). Indicate
the type of report being filed by checking the appropriate box. For “48-Hour”
and “24-Hour” reports, check the box
“48-Hour Report” or “24-Hour Report”
as applicable.
(b). Indicate if the report is an amendment and, if so, what report it amends.
LINE 5. Covering Period. For quarterly
reports, enter the report coverage dates.
Include all activity from the ending
coverage date of the last report filed
or from the date of the filer’s initial
receipt or disbursement, as appropriate.
When submitting multiple forms for a
single period, indicate the current page
number and total pages submitted for
the period.

Coverage dates are not required on
24- and 48-hour reports. Filers that
nevertheless choose to enter a covering
period may use the first and last dates
on which the communication airs. For
communications that are paid entirely
in advance and run indefinitely, the filer
may enter the date on which the communication first airs through the date of
the applicable election.
Additional 24- or 48-hour reports are
required each time subsequent independent expenditures reach the applicable
$1,000 or $10,000 threshold.
LINE 6. Total Contributions. Enter
total contributions received during the
reporting period, including contributions of $200 or less that were not itemized on Schedule 5-A. When submitting
multiple forms for a single period, enter
total on page 1.
LINE 7. Total Independent Expenditures. Enter the total amount of
independent expenditures made during
this reporting period. When submitting
multiple forms for a single period, enter
total on page 1.
Verification
FEC FORM 5 must be signed by the
person making the independent expenditure, who must certify verifiably under
penalty of perjury that the expenditure
was not made in cooperation, consultation or concert with, or at the request or
suggestion of any candidate or authorized committee or agent or a political
party committee or its agents. 11 CFR
109.10(e)(1)(v) and (2). Electronic filers:
Type the name of the person making
the independent expenditure after the
certification.

Instructions for Schedule 5-A
(Itemized Receipts)
Provide the requested information for
each contribution over $200 that was
made for the purpose of furthering the
independent expenditures.
Federal Election Commission (Revised 09/2013)

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FEC FORM 05 AND RELATED SCHEDULES

Instructions for Schedule
5-E (Itemized Independent
Expenditures)
Once the total of independent expenditures made exceeds $250 per election
in a calendar year, provide the requested
information about the payee, the date
the independent expenditure was made
and the amount. For purposes of
determining whether 24- and 48-hour
Reports must be filed, calculate the
aggregated amount of expenditures
(including enforceable contracts obligating funds for disbursement) as of
the first date on which a communication which constitutes an independent
expenditure is publicly distributed or
otherwise publicly disseminated, and as
of the date that any such communication with respect to the same election
is subsequently publicly distributed or
otherwise publicly disseminated. 11
CFR 104.4(f). See also, “Interpretive
Rule on When Certain Independent
Expenditures are ‘Publicly Disseminated’ for Reporting Purposes,” 76 FR
61254 (2011).
Indicate under “Purpose of Expenditure,” the specific type of communication made (e.g., television ad, radio
ad). Along with reporting the purpose
of the expenditure, filers should also
broadly characterize each disbursement
by providing a category/type code, such
as the example listed below. Note that
the category/type code is not intended
to replace or to serve as a substitute for
the “purpose of disbursement.”

Subtotal the expenditures at the
bottom of Schedule 5-E and add them
to the subtotal of unitemized independent expenditures at the bottom of the
last Schedule 5-E page. Carry the total
forward to Line 7 of Form 5.

004 Advertising Expenses -including
general public political advertising
(e.g., purchases of radio/television
broadcast/cable time, print advertisements and related production
costs)
Identify the candidate supported
or opposed by the independent expenditure by indicating the candidate’s
name, office sought and the election
for which the disbursement was made.
Also, list the total amount expended in
the aggregate during the calendar year,
per election, per office sought.

Federal Election Commission (Revised 09/2013)

Page 3

